 RIKER TASHA PICARD TROI CREW Q ZORN CRUSHER DATA

[Bandi city]

(Riker painfully hauls himself up from the ground.
He is covered in dust) 
DATA: Are you undamaged? 
RIKER: Yes. You? 
DATA: All systems operating. 
(They hear sobbing, and enter - )

[Zorn's office]

(Zorn is hiding underneath his desk) 
ZORN: Please! Make it stop! You can drive it away! 
RIKER: Drive who away, Groppler? 
ZORN: I don't know. 
DATA: Unlikely, sir. Our records show that you supervised all Bandi
contact with other worlds. 
ZORN: We done nothing anything wrong! 
RIKER: Then if we can learn nothing from you, we'll leave. 
ZORN: No! Oh no, please, don't leave. I'll try to explain. 
(Then he gets beamed away, screaming)
RIKER: First officer to Enterprise. We've lost Zorn. Something like a
transporter beam seems to have snatched him away. 
[Bridge]

RIKER [OC]: Question, sir, could it be this Q? 
Q: None of you knows who transported him. You're running out of time,
Captain. 
TROI: Captain, suddenly I'm sensing something else. Satisfaction.
Enormous satisfaction. 
PICARD: From the same source as before? 
TROI: No, that was on the planet. This is much closer. 
Q: Excellent, Counsellor. He's such a dullard, isn't he? 
CREW [OC]: Captain from Transporter Room. First Officer and Mister Data
have beamed aboard. 
Q: Excellent also. Perhaps with more of these little minds helping 
PICARD: That is enough, damn it! 
Q: Have you forgotten that we have an agreement, 
PICARD: An agreement which you are at this moment breaking by taking
over our vessel, interfering with my decisions. Either leave or finish
us. 
Q: Temper, temper, mon Capitaine. I'm merely trying to assist a pitiful
species. But perhaps I will leave if Commander Riker provides me with
some amusement. 
PICARD: Do nothing that he asks. 
Q (JUDGE): But I ask so little, and it's so necessary if you're to
solve all this. Beam over there with your what do you call it? Your
away team. 
PICARD: I'll risk none of my crew on that unknown. 
Q: You should already know what you'll find there. Or perhaps it's too
adult a puzzle for you. 
RIKER: With all respect, Captain, I want to beam over there. 
Q: You show promise, my good fellow. 
RIKER: Have you understood any part of what he's tried to tell you?
Humanity is no longer a savage race. 
Q: But you must still prove that. 
(And he vanishes) 
PICARD: At least you impressed him, Number One. That's hopeful. 
RIKER: Thank you, Captain. Captain, if he's not open to evidence in our
favour, where will you go from there? 
PICARD: I'll attend to my duty. 
RIKER: To the bitter end? 
PICARD: I see nothing so bitter about that. 
[Crusher's office]

CRUSHER: Can I help you, Captain? 
PICARD: I didn't want you thinking me harsh. Cold blooded. 
CRUSHER: Why oh why would I ever think that. 
PICARD: I didn't welcome you aboard personally, professionally. I made
you come to me on the Bridge. I yelled at your son. Who, as you pointed
out, was quite correct. He does seem to have a very good grasp of
starship operations. 
CRUSHER: You've just won this mother's heart, Captain. 
PICARD: Ah, but, now, your assignment here. I would consider and
approve you a transfer for you. 
CRUSHER: Oh. You consider me unqualified? 
PICARD: Hardly. Your service record shows you're just the Chief Medical
Officer I want. 
CRUSHER: Then you must object to me personally. 
PICARD: I'm trying to be considerate of your feelings, Doctor. For you
to work with a commanding officer who would continually remind you of a
terrible personal tragedy. 
CRUSHER: If I had had any objections to serving with you, I wouldn't
have requested this assignment, Captain. 
PICARD: You requested this posting? 
CRUSHER: My feelings about my husband's death will have no effect on
the way I serve you, this vessel, or this mission. 
PICARD: Ah. Then, welcome aboard, Doctor. 
(They shake hands) 
RIKER [OC]: Riker to Picard. We're ready to beam over, sir. 
PICARD: I, er, I hope we can be friends? 
CRUSHER: Thank you. 
[Transporter room]

(The away team is Data, Tasha, Troi and Riker) 
RIKER: Phasers on stun. Energise. 
[Alien vessel]

(It looks like the passages under the Bandi city) 
DATA: Most interesting, sir. 
TASHA: It's much the same construction we saw in the underground
tunnel. 
DATA: But no sound of power. No equipment. 
TASHA: How does this ship run? 
RIKER: What is it, Troi? Is it the same as you felt down there? 
TROI: No. This is much more powerful. Full of anger! Hate! 
TASHA: Toward us? 
TROI: No. It's directed down toward the old Bandi city. 
DATA: Most intriguing again, sir. The place that this vessel was firing
upon was not the Farpoint starbase, but the home of those who
constructed. Sorry, sir. I seem to be commenting on everything. 
RIKER: Good. Don't stop, my friend.

[Bridge]

RIKER [OC]: Enterprise, Riker. This is turning out
to be a very long tunnel or corridor, sir. 
[Alien vessel]

RIKER: No ship's crew in sight. No sign of
mechanism or circuitry. No controls or read-outs. This is nothing like
any vessel I've seen before. 
TROI: Groppler Zorn, sir. A great fear just ahead. 
