ZORN [OC] RIKER TROI [OC] WORF TASHA PICARD TROI Q RIKER [OC] ZORN CRUSHER DATA
gratitude provided different joy able shouldn destroy directed temper

[Crusher's office]

CRUSHER: Can I help you, Captain? 
PICARD: I didn't want you thinking me harsh. Cold blooded. 
CRUSHER: Why oh why would I ever think that. 
PICARD: I didn't welcome you aboard personally, professionally. I made
you come to me on the Bridge. I yelled at your son. Who, as you pointed
out, was quite correct. He does seem to have a very good grasp of
starship operations. 
CRUSHER: You've just won this mother's heart, Captain. 
PICARD: Ah, but, now, your assignment here. I would consider and
approve you a transfer for you. 
CRUSHER: Oh. You consider me unqualified? 
PICARD: Hardly. Your service record shows you're just the Chief Medical
Officer I want. 
CRUSHER: Then you must object to me personally. 
PICARD: I'm trying to be considerate of your feelings, Doctor. For you
to work with a commanding officer who would continually remind you of a
terrible personal tragedy. 
CRUSHER: If I had had any objections to serving with you, I wouldn't
have requested this assignment, Captain. 
PICARD: You requested this posting? 
CRUSHER: My feelings about my husband's death will have no effect on
the way I serve you, this vessel, or this mission. 
PICARD: Ah. Then, welcome aboard, Doctor. 
(They shake hands) 
RIKER [OC]: Riker to Picard. We're ready to beam over, sir. 
PICARD: I, er, I hope we can be friends? 
CRUSHER: Thank you. 
[Transporter room]

(The away team is Data, Tasha, Troi and Riker) 
RIKER: Phasers on stun. Energise. 
[Alien vessel]

(It looks like the passages under the Bandi city) 
DATA: Most interesting, sir. 
TASHA: It's much the same construction we saw in the underground
tunnel. 
DATA: But no sound of power. No equipment. 
TASHA: How does this ship run? 
RIKER: What is it, Troi? Is it the same as you felt down there? 
TROI: No. This is much more powerful. Full of anger! Hate! 
TASHA: Toward us? 
TROI: No. It's directed down toward the old Bandi city. 
DATA: Most intriguing again, sir. The place that this vessel was firing
upon was not the Farpoint starbase, but the home of those who
constructed. Sorry, sir. I seem to be commenting on everything. 
RIKER: Good. Don't stop, my friend.

[Bridge]

RIKER [OC]: Enterprise, Riker. This is turning out
to be a very long tunnel or corridor, sir. 
[Alien vessel]

RIKER: No ship's crew in sight. No sign of
mechanism or circuitry. No controls or read-outs. This is nothing like
any vessel I've seen before. 
TROI: Groppler Zorn, sir. A great fear just ahead. 
[Bridge]

TROI [OC]: There's a different feeling here than in
the tunnel. Very different. 
[Alien vessel]

ZORN [OC]: No! Please! No more! Please, no more!
Please, please, make it stop! Please! Please! Please! Make it stop!
Please! 
(They find Zorn suspended in a force field, in pain) 
ZORN: No! Please! No more, please! No more! Please! 
RIKER: Zorn. Can you hear me? 
ZORN: The pain! No! 
TROI: Has the alien communicated? 
ZORN: Please! Please! Please, no more! 
TROI: That's it, sir. It's just one alien that I'm sensing here. 
ZORN: Please! I don't understand what you want! 
TROI: Not true. He does know. 
ZORN: No, please, no more. No more! No, no, no, don't! 
(Riker and Data modulate their phasers to disrupt the force field, and
Zorn drops onto a big soft mattress. The alien ship is not pleased
about this) 
[Bridge]

WORF: Captain! 
PICARD: Transporter chief, yank them back now! Riker, acknowledge! 
(Flash! Q is in a Starfleet uniform) 
Q: Your time is up, Captain. 
PICARD: Transporter Chief, do you have their coordinates? Transporter
Chief! 
Q: He can't hear you, Captain. 
PICARD: Transporter Chief, come in! I've people in trouble over there,
Q. 
(Q sits himself in the Captain's chair) 
PICARD: Everyone at ease. That's an order. Q, my people are in trouble.
Let me help them, please. I'll do whatever you say. 
(The away team and Zorn materialise on the Bridge) 
Q: You'll do whatever I say? 
PICARD: It seems I did make that bargain. 
TROI: The agreement isn't valid, sir. It wasn't Q that saved us. 
Q: Save yourself. It may attack you now. 
RIKER: It was that which sent us back, Captain. 
TROI: Yes sir. It is not merely a vessel, sir. Somehow it is alive. 
Q: She lies. Destroy it while you have a chance. Make phasers and
photon torpedoes ready. 
PICARD: No! Do nothing he demands. 
ZORN: Captain, that thing was killing my people! 
PICARD: Was there a reason? 
Q: It is an unknown, Captain. Isn't that enough? 
PICARD: If you'd earned that uniform you're wearing, you'd know that
the unknown is what brings us out here. 
Q: Wasted effort, considering the human intelligence. 
PICARD: Let's test that. Beginning with the tunnels you have under
Farpoint, Groppler. 
RIKER: Identical to the ones on the space vessel lifeform over there.
Why was it punishing you, Groppler? 
PICARD: In return for some pain you'd given other creature? 
ZORN: We've done nothing wrong. It was injured. We helped it. 
PICARD: Thank you. That was the missing part. Lieutenant Yar, rig main
phaser banks to deliver an energy beam. 
TASHA: Aye, sir. 
RIKER: You're right, Captain. It has to be conceivable that somewhere
in this galaxy there could exist creatures able to convert energy into
matter. 
PICARD: And into specific patterns of matter, just as our transporters
do. 
TASHA: On the viewer, Captain! 
(The alien vessel transforms into a giant space jellyfish) 
PICARD: Groppler, you captured something like that, didn't you? 
ZORN: Warn my people, please, to leave Farpoint Station immediately! 
Q: He lies, Captain. Shouldn't you let his people die? 
PICARD: Transmit the message, leave Farpoint Space Station immediately.

TROI: Then it was a pair of creatures I was sensing. One down there in
grief and pain, the other up here, filled with anger. 
DATA: And firing not on the new space station, but on the Bandi and
their city. 
PICARD: Attacking those who had captured, capture its mate. 
TASHA: Energy beam ready, sir. 
PICARD: Lock it in on Farpoint Station. 
Q: I see now it was too simple a puzzle. Generosity has always been my
weakness. 
PICARD: Let it have whatever it can absorb. Energise. 
(A stream of light bathes Farpoint) 
TASHA: Now getting feedback on the beam, sir. 
PICARD: Discontinue. Groppler Zorn, there'll soon be no Farpoint
Station, if I'm right about this. 
Q: A lucky guess. 
(Farpoint transforms into another space jellyfish) 
ZORN: Please believe me, we meant no harm to the creature. It was
starving for energy. 
PICARD: Which your world furnishes you in plenty. 
ZORN: We did feed it. 
PICARD: Only enough to keep it alive, so that you could force it to
shape itself into whatever form you needed! 
(The second jellyfish takes off, and the two touch tendrils, lovingly,
before leaving) 
TROI: Sir! Wonderful! A feeling of great joy. And gratitude. Great joy
and gratitude, from both of them. 
PICARD: Why do you use other lifeforms for recreation? 
Q: If so, you've not provided the best. 
PICARD: Leave us! We've passed your little test. 
Q: Temper, temper, mon Capitaine. 
PICARD: Get off my ship. 
Q: I do so only because it suits me to. But I will not promise never to
appear again. 
Captain's log, stardate 41174.2. The agreement for
the rebuilding Farpoint Station has been completed per my instructions.

