RIKER WORF PICARD TROI Q MCCOY DATA

[Corridor]

(A very old man in a cardigan is shuffling along.
He is played by DeForrest Kelley, so of course we name this character
-)
MCCOY: Have you got some reason you want my atoms scattered all over
space, boy?
DATA: No sir. But at your age, sir, I thought you shouldn't have to put
up with the time and trouble of a shuttlecraft. 
MCCOY: Hold it right there, boy. 
DATA: Sir? 
MCCOY: What about my age? 
DATA: Sorry, sir. If that subject troubles you 
MCCOY: Troubles me? What's so damned troubling about not having died?
How old do you think I am? 
DATA: One hundred thirty seven years, Admiral, according to Starfleet
records. 
MCCOY: Explain how you remember that so exactly. 
DATA: I remember every fact I am exposed to, sir. 
MCCOY: I don't see any points on your ears, boy, but you sound like a
Vulcan. 
DATA: No, sir. I'm an android. 
MCCOY: Almost as bad. 
DATA: I thought it was generally accepted, sir, that Vulcans are an
advanced and most honourable race. 
MCCOY: They are, they are. And damned annoying at times. 
DATA: Yes, sir. 
MCCOY: Well, this is a new ship, but she's got the right name. Now you
remember that, you hear. 
DATA: I will, sir. 
MCCOY: You treat her like a lady, and she'll always bring you home.

[Bridge]

PICARD: Did you signal the Hood, Commander Riker? 
RIKER: Your exact message. Bon voyage mon ami. 
PICARD: What was my answer, computer? 
Q [OC]: You're wasting time, Captain. (appears on viewscreen) Or did
you think I was gone? 
PICARD: Lieutenant! Do you intend to blast a hole through the viewer?
If the purpose of this is to test humans, your honour, we must proceed
in our own way. 
Q [on viewscreen]: You are dilatory. You have twenty four hours. Any
further delay and you risk summary judgement against you, Captain. 
WORF: Sorry, sir 
RIKER: You reacted fast, Mister Worf. 
PICARD: But futilely. 
WORF: I will learn to do better, sir. 
PICARD: Of course you will. We've a long voyage ahead of us. 
RIKER: What do we do now, Captain? With them monitoring our every move
and every word. 
PICARD: We do exactly what we would do if this Q never existed. If
we're going to be damned, let's be damned for what we really are.

PICARD [OC]: Personal log, stardate 41153.8. Of the twenty four
hours Q allotted us to prove ourselves, eleven have now passed without
incident. And yet I cannot forget Q's prediction that we will face some
critical test.

[Ready room]

RIKER: This planet's interior heat provides an
abundance of geothermal energy, sir. But it's about all this world does
offer. 
PICARD: And it's your belief that this is what made it possible for
them to construct this base to Starfleet standards? 
RIKER: Yes sir. We have to assume that they've been trading their
surplus energy for the construction materials used here. According to
our ship's scans, many of the materials used are not found on this
world. 
PICARD: Perhaps it's like those incidents you describe in your report
as almost magical attempts to please us. 
RIKER: Those events did happen, sir. 
PICARD: None of it suggests anything threatening. If only every life
form had as much desire to please. Ready to beam down? I'm looking
forward to meeting this Groppler Zorn. 
RIKER: I have a feeling there's more to it than just pleasing us, sir. 
[Bridge]

PICARD: As if it's something Q is doing to trick
us? Over here. I've asked the Counsellor to join us in this meeting.
May I introduce our new First Officer, Commander William Riker.
Commander Riker, this is our ship's Counsellor, Deanna Troi. 
TROI [OC]: Do you remember what I taught you, Imzadi? Can you still
sense my thoughts? 
TROI: A pleasure, Commander. 
RIKER: Likewise, Counsellor. 
PICARD: Have the two of you met before? 
RIKER: We have, sir. 
PICARD: Excellent. I consider it important for my key officers know
each other's abilities. 
(They step into the turbolift) 
TROI: We do, sir. We do. 
TROI [OC]: I, too, would never say goodbye, Imzadi. 

