RIKER OBRIEN LAFORGE PICARD WESLEY ZORN CRUSHER DATA

[Battle Bridge]

(O'Brien is unaware the four were ever away) 
DATA: What is present course, conn? 
O'BRIEN: It's what it's been all along, sir. Direct heading to Farpoint
Station. 
DATA: Confirm. We are on that heading, sir. 
O'BRIEN: Know anything about Farpoint Station, sir? Sounds like a
fairly dull place. 
PICARD: We've heard that we may find it rather interesting. 
Personal log, Commander William Riker. Stardate
41153.7. The USS Hood has dropped me off at Farpoint Station, where I
await the arrival of the new USS Enterprise to which I have been
assigned as First Officer. Meanwhile I have been asked to visit the
Farpoint Administrator's Office, in the old city.

[Zorn's office]

(It is a standard wooden room, a desk with a bowl
of fruit on it. Zorn is humanoid in loose clothing with long straight
hair) 
ZORN: Ah, Commander Riker, I thought you'd want to know we've still no
word from your vessel. I trust we made your waiting comfortable? 
RIKER: Luxurious is more like it. 
ZORN: Good. (gets muddled over a handshake) Good. 
RIKER: Would I seem ungrateful if I ask for some information? 
ZORN: Anything. 
RIKER: Fascinating, the advanced materials used in constructing this
space station. Your energy supply must be as abundant as I've heard. 
ZORN: Geothermal energy is the one great blessing of this planet. I'll
have all the details of that sent to your quarters. 
RIKER: Thank you. But it still seems incredible to me that you could
have constructed this station so rapidly and so, so perfectly suited to
our needs. 
ZORN: Would your care for an Earth delicacy, Commander? 
RIKER: (looking at the bowl of fruit) If there's an apple? 
ZORN: I'm sorry, Commander. 
RIKER: It doesn't matter. What I was saying was (suddenly there is a
second bowl of apples) I'll be damned. 
ZORN: Ah yes, there was another selection here 
RIKER: Groppler, I could have sworn it wasn't here a minute ago. 
ZORN: And did your failure to notice it make it unwelcome? 
RIKER: Not at all, Groppler. 
ZORN: I trust it will be the same with Farpoint Station, Commander. A
few easily answered questions about it won't make Starfleet appreciate
it less. 
RIKER: And it's delicious. Thank you. Good morning, Groppler Zorn. 
ZORN: Good morning. 
(Riker leaves with his apple) 
ZORN: (to the air) You have been told not to do that. Why can't you
understand? It will arouse their suspicion. And if that happens, we
will have to punish you. We will, I promise you.

[Market place]

RIKER: Doctor Crusher! 
WESLEY: Mother, it's Commander Riker. 
RIKER: Hello, Wes. Enjoying Farpoint Station? 
WESLEY: Yes, sir. 
RIKER: I saw you. I thought I might join you for a stroll. 
CRUSHER: Actually, we were about to do some shopping. 
RIKER: I've been meaning to visit the mall myself. 
CRUSHER: Of course. 
WESLEY: If you're wondering about Mom, Commander Riker, she's not
unfriendly. She's just shy around men she doesn't know. 
CRUSHER: Wesley! I believe that means he would like us to be friends. 
RIKER: I'm willing, Doctor. Although we're not officially part of the
Enterprise, I thought there might be something useful we can do while
we wait. 
CRUSHER: Useful? How, Commander? 
RIKER: Investigating some things that I've noticed since I've been
here. The last was a piece of fruit. 
CRUSHER: (examining a bolt of cloth) Gold would be lovely with this. I
am sure, Commander, there are reasons for a first officer to want to
demonstrate his energy and alertness to a new captain. But since my
duty and interests are outside the command
structure 
(Suddenly the bolt of cloth has a gold pattern on it) 
RIKER: Isn't it remarkable they happen to have exactly what you asked
for? 
CRUSHER: Thank you. I'll take the entire bolt. Send it to our starship
when it arrives. Charge to Doctor Crusher. 
(they walk away from the stall) 
RIKER: Let's see, where were we? 
CRUSHER: I was accusing you of inventing work in order to curry favour
with our new captain. I apologise. 
WESLEY: Mom, that gold pattern wasn't there. 
CRUSHER: Maybe this is something Jean-Luc would like looked into. 
RIKER: Jean-Luc Picard? You know the Captain? 
WESLEY: When I was little, he brought my father's body home to us. 
CRUSHER: Yes, Wes, long, long ago. A pleasure to meet you, Commander.
You will excuse us. 
RIKER: My pleasure, Doctor. Wes. 
WESLEY: Sir? 
RIKER: See you on board. 
WESLEY: Yes, sir. 
(Crusher and Wesley leave Riker, and another uniformed man arrives,
wearing a device across his eyes) 
LAFORGE: Sir, the Enterprise is arriving 
RIKER: Is this an official report, Lieutenant? 

LAFORGE: Sorry, Commander. Sir, Lieutenant La Forge reporting. The
Enterprise arriving, but without the saucer section, sir. 
RIKER: Stardrive section only? What happened? 
LAFORGE: I don't know, sir. Captain Picard has signalled for you to
beam up immediately. 
RIKER: Our new captain doesn't waste time. It's a good idea. Thank you,
Lieutenant. 
LAFORGE: Aye, sir. 
RIKER: (moves into a clear space) Enterprise, this is Commander Riker
at Farpoint Station. Standing by
to beam up. 
