TROI TASHA PICARD RIKER BAILIFF Q SOLDIER O'BRIEN Q (JUDGE) ZORN DATA
muddled office read agreement looking record kill uss irrelevant

[Courtroom]

(The crew find themselves in a room with a noisy
audience. One of the future soldiers that Q pretended to be, fires his
machine gun for silence. An Oriental man takes charge) 
BAILIFF: The prisoners will all stand. 
(Picard sits down) 
DATA: Historically intriguing, Captain. Very, very accurate. 
PICARD: Mid twenty first century. The post-atomic horror. 
BAILIFF: All present, stand and make respectful attention to honoured
Judge. 
TROI: Careful, sir. This is not an illusion or a dream. 
PICARD: But these courts happened in the past. 
TROI: I don't understand either, but this is real. 
SOLDIER: Get to your feet, criminals! 
(From the distance, a spotlight reveals a figure approaching, dressed
in red, and sitting on a throne carried on hydraulics for effect) 
DATA: At least we are acquainted with the judge, Captain. 
(Q gestures the crowd to sit) 
SOLDIER: Attention! On your feet. Attention! 
(Tasha disarms him) 
Q: (to soldier) You are out of order. (another soldier kills him) The
prisoners will not be harmed until they are found guilty. Dispose of
that. 
PICARD: Can we assume you mean this will be a fair trial? 
Q: Yes, absolutely equitable. Proceed. 
BAILIFF: Before this gracious court now appear these prisoners to
answer for the multiple and grievous savageries of their species. How
plead you, criminal? 
DATA: If I may, Captain? Objection, your honour. In the year 2036, the
new United Nations declared that no Earth citizen
could be made to answer for the crimes of his race or forbears. 
Q (JUDGE): Objection denied. This is a court of the year 2079, by which
time more rapid progress had caused all United
Earth nonsense to be abolished. 
PICARD: Tasha, no. 
TASHA: I must! Because I grew up on a world that allowed things like
this court. And it was people like these that saved me from it. This
so-called court should get down on its knees to what Starfleet is, what
it represents. 
(Q freezes Tasha) 
TROI: You barbarian! This woman 
BAILIFF: Criminals keep silence! 
PICARD: You've got a lot to learn about humans if you think you can
torture us or frighten us into silence. Will she live? 
DATA: Uncertain. When he froze Lieutenant Torres on the Bridge, we had
our Sickbay to help thaw him out. 
BAILIFF: You will answer the charges, criminals. 
PICARD: Or what? Or this? Her death? Or worse? You promised the
prisoners will not be harmed. We plead nothing so long as you break
your own rules. 
Q: I suggest you centre your attention on this trial, Captain. It may
be your only hope. 
PICARD: I suggest you are now having second thoughts it. You are
considering that if you conduct a fair trial, which was your promise,
you may lose. 
Q: Lose? 
PICARD: Yes, even though you're judge and prosecutor. 
Q: And jury. 
PICARD: Accepted, so long as you keep to your agreement. And assaulting
prisoners is hardly a fair trial. 
Q: This is a merciful court. (Tasha is thawed) Silence! Continuing
these proceedings, I must caution you that legal trickery is not
permitted. This is a court of 
PICARD: court of fact! We humans know our past, even when we're ashamed
of it. I recognise this court system as the one that agreed with that
line from Shakespeare.  Kill all the
lawyers. 
Q: Which was done. 
PICARD: Which led to the rule guilty until proven innocent. 
Q: Of course. Bringing the innocent to trial would be unfair. You will
now answer to the charge of being a grievously savage race. 
PICARD: Grievously savage could mean anything. I will answer only
specific charges. 
Q: Are you certain you want a full disclosure of human ugliness? So be
it, fool! Present the charges. 
BAILIFF: Criminal, you will read the charges to the court. 
(Picard takes his time to read the pad that is handed to him, then
gives it back) 
PICARD: I see no charges against us, Your Honour. 
Q: You are out of order! 
(Guns are placed at Data and Troi's heads) 
Q: Soldiers, you will press those triggers if this criminal answers
with any word other than guilty. Criminal, how plead you? 
PICARD: Guilty. Provisionally. 
Q: The Court will hear the provision. 
PICARD: We question whether this court is abiding by its own trial
instructions. Have I have permission to have Commander Data repeat the
record? 
Q: There will be no legal trickery 
PICARD: These will be your own words, your Honour. What exactly what
followed his Honour's statement that the prisoner will not be harmed? 
DATA: Yes, sir. The Captain had asked the question. Can we assume you
mean this will be a fair trial? And in reply the judge stated, yes,
absolutely equitable. 
Q: Irrelevant testimony, entirely irrelevant. 
PICARD: Alright! We agree there is evidence to support the court's
contention that humans have been savage. Therefore I say test us. Test
whether this is presently true of humans. 
Q: I see, I see. And so you petition the Court to accept you and your
comrades as proof of what humanity has become. 
PICARD: There must be many ways we can be tested. We have a long
mission ahead of us. 
Q: Another brilliant suggestion, Captain. But your test hardly requires
a long mission. Your immediate destination offers far more challenge
than you can possibly imagine. Yes, this Farpoint station will be an
excellent test. 
BAILIFF: All present, respectfully stand. 
Q: This trial is adjourned, to allow the criminals to be tested. 
BAILIFF: This honourable court is adjourned. Stand respectfully. 
Q: Captain, you may find you are not nearly clever enough to deal with
what lies ahead for you. It may have been better to accept sentence
here.

[Battle Bridge]

(O'Brien is unaware the four were ever away) 
DATA: What is present course, conn? 
O'BRIEN: It's what it's been all along, sir. Direct heading to Farpoint
Station. 
DATA: Confirm. We are on that heading, sir. 
O'BRIEN: Know anything about Farpoint Station, sir? Sounds like a
fairly dull place. 
PICARD: We've heard that we may find it rather interesting. 
Personal log, Commander William Riker. Stardate
41153.7. The USS Hood has dropped me off at Farpoint Station, where I
await the arrival of the new USS Enterprise to which I have been
assigned as First Officer. Meanwhile I have been asked to visit the
Farpoint Administrator's Office, in the old city.

[Zorn's office]

(It is a standard wooden room, a desk with a bowl
of fruit on it. Zorn is humanoid in loose clothing with long straight
hair) 
ZORN: Ah, Commander Riker, I thought you'd want to know we've still no
word from your vessel. I trust we made your waiting comfortable? 
RIKER: Luxurious is more like it. 
ZORN: Good. (gets muddled over a handshake) Good. 
RIKER: Would I seem ungrateful if I ask for some information? 
ZORN: Anything. 
RIKER: Fascinating, the advanced materials used in constructing this
space station. Your energy supply must be as abundant as I've heard. 
ZORN: Geothermal energy is the one great blessing of this planet. I'll
have all the details of that sent to your quarters. 
RIKER: Thank you. But it still seems incredible to me that you could
have constructed this station so rapidly and so, so perfectly suited to
our needs. 
ZORN: Would your care for an Earth delicacy, Commander? 
RIKER: (looking at the bowl of fruit) If there's an apple? 
ZORN: I'm sorry, Commander. 
RIKER: It doesn't matter. What I was saying was (suddenly there is a
second bowl of apples) I'll be damned. 
ZORN: Ah yes, there was another selection here 
RIKER: Groppler, I could have sworn it wasn't here a minute ago. 
ZORN: And did your failure to notice it make it unwelcome? 
RIKER: Not at all, Groppler. 
ZORN: I trust it will be the same with Farpoint Station, Commander. A
few easily answered questions about it won't make Starfleet appreciate
it less. 
RIKER: And it's delicious. Thank you. Good morning, Groppler Zorn. 
ZORN: Good morning. 
(Riker leaves with his apple) 
ZORN: (to the air) You have been told not to do that. Why can't you
understand? It will arouse their suspicion. And if that happens, we
will have to punish you. We will, I promise you.

