TORRES TROI WORF PICARD Q DATA
skulk emulate collide virtual far deflectors era sensing helmsman

[Bridge]

PICARD: You will agree, Data, that Starfleet's
orders are difficult? 
DATA: Difficult? Simply solve the mystery of Farpoint Station. 
PICARD: As simple as that. 
TROI: Farpoint Station. Even the name sounds mysterious. 
PICARD: It's hardly simple, Data, to negotiate a friendly agreement for
Starfleet to use the base while at the same time snoop around finding
how and why the life form there built it. 
DATA: Inquiry. The word snoop? 
PICARD: Data, how can you be programmed as a virtual encyclopedia of
human information without knowing a simple word like snoop? 
DATA: Possibility, a kind of human behaviour I was not designed to
emulate. 
PICARD: It means to spy, to sneak. 
DATA: Ah! To seek covertly, to go stealthily, to slink, slither 
PICARD: Exactly, yes. 
DATA: Glide, creep, skulk, pussyfoot, gumshoe. 
TROI: Captain, I'm sensing a powerful mind. 
(Collision alert sounds)
TORRES: Something strange on the detector circuits. 
(A massive barrier appears in front of them in space) 
DATA: It registers as solid, Captain. 
TROI: Or an incredibly powerful forcefield. But if we collide with
either it could be very 
PICARD: Shut off that damned noise. Go to Yellow Alert. 
WORF: Shields and deflectors up, sir. 
(The barrier ripples like chain mail) 
PICARD: Reverse power, full stop. 
TORRES: Controls to full stop, sir. Now reading full stop, sir. 
(There's a flash of light, and an Elizabethan era soldier appears,
complete with breast plate and plumed hat) 
Q: Thou are notified that thy kind hath infiltrated the galaxy too far
already. Thou art directed to return to thine own solar system
immediately. 
PICARD: That's quite a directive. Would you mind identifying what you
are? 
Q: We call ourselves the Q. Or thou mayst call me that. It's all much
the same thing. 
(The same force barrier stops two people exiting the turbolift) 
Q: I present myself to thee as a fellow ship captain, that thou mayst
better understand me. Go back whence thou camest. (to Helmsman) Stay
where thou art! 
(And the helmsman is frozen solid, phaser in hand) 
PICARD: Data, call medics. 
TROI: He's frozen. 
PICARD: He would not have injured you. Do you recognise this, the stun
setting? 
Q: Knowing humans as thou dost, Captain, wouldst thou be captured
helpless by them? Now, go back or thou shalt most certainly die. 
Captain's log, supplementary. The frozen form of
Lieutenant Torres has been rushed to sickbay. The question now is the
incredible power of the Q being. Do we dare oppose it? 
