TROI WORF TASHA PICARD Q DATA
engage log agree magnifying station need ship arm divide

[Bridge]

Q: Captain, thy little centuries go by so rapidly.
Perhaps thou will better understand this. 
(A flash of light and he is wearing a 20th century US military uniform,
with a cigarette in his hand) 
Q: Actually, the issue at stake is patriotism. You must return to your
world and put an end to the commies. All it takes is a few good men. 
PICARD: What? That nonsense is centuries behind us. 
Q: But you can't deny that you're still a dangerous, savage child race.

PICARD: Most certainly I deny it. I agree we still were when humans
wore costumes like that, four hundred years ago. 
Q: At which time you slaughtered millions in silly arguments about how
to divide the resources of
your little world. And four hundred years before that you were
murdering each other in quarrels over tribal god-images. Since there
are no indications that humans will ever change. 
PICARD: But even when we wore costumes like that we'd already started
to make rapid progress. 
Q: Oh yeah? You want to review your rapid progress? 
(Flash, and a change into a padded suit) 
Q: Rapid progress, to where humans learned to control their military
with drugs. 
WORF: Sir, sickbay reports Lieutenant Torres's condition is better. 
Q: Oh, concern for one's fellow comrade. How touching. 
WORF: And now a personal request, sir. Permission to clean up the
bridge. 
TASHA: Lieutenant Worf is right, sir. As Security Chief I can't just
stand here and let
PICARD: Yes you can, Lieutenant Yar. 
Q: (taking a snort of something) Oh, better. And later, on finally
reaching deep space, humans of course found enemies to fight out there
too. And to broaden those struggles you again found allies for still
more murdering. The same old story, all over again. 
PICARD: No. The same old story is the one we're meeting now.
Self-righteous life forms who are eager not to learn but to prosecute,
to judge anything they don't understand or can't tolerate. 
Q: What an interesting idea. Prosecute and judge. Suppose it turns out
we understand you humans only too well. 
PICARD: We've no fear of what the true facts about us will reveal. 
Q: Facts about you? Splendid, splendid, Captain! You're a veritable
fountain of good ideas. There are preparations to make, but when we
next meet, Captain, we'll proceed exactly as you suggest. 
(A flash and he is gone) 
WORF: Sir, respectfully submit our only choice is to fight. 
TASHA: Fight, or try to escape. 
PICARD: Sense anything, Commander? 
TROI: Its mind is much too powerful. Recommend we avoid contact. 
PICARD: From this point, no station aboard, repeat no station, for any
reason will make use of transmitted signals or intercom. We'll try and
take them by surprise. Let's see what this galaxy class starship can
do. (to Worf) Lieutenant, inform engine room to prepare for maximum
acceleration. 
WORF: Aye, sir. 
PICARD: Records search, Data. Results of detaching saucer section at
high warp velocity. 
DATA: Inadvisable at any warp speed, sir. 
PICARD: Search theoretical. 
DATA: It is possible, sir. But absolutely no margin for error. 
PICARD: Using print-out only, notify all decks to prepare for maximum
acceleration. Now hear this, Maximum, you're entitled to know, means
that we'll be pushing our engines well beyond safety limits. Our hope
is to surprise whatever that is out there, try and outrun it. Our only
other option is to tuck tail between our legs and return to Earth as
they demand. 
(Worf makes his trip to Engineering and back) 
WORF: Engine room ready, sir. 
TROI: The board shows green, Captain. All go. 
PICARD: Stand by. Engage. 
(They swoop along and past the barrier, which then turns into a ball
and chases them) 
WORF: Velocity warp nine point two. 
DATA: Heading three five one mark eleven, sir. 
PICARD: Steady on that. 
TASHA: The hostile is now giving chase, sir. Accelerating fast. 
WORF: We're now at warp nine point three, sir, which takes us past the
red line, sir. 
PICARD: Continue accelerating. Counsellor, at this point I'm open to
guesses about what we've just met. 
TROI: It it felt like something beyond what we'd consider a life form. 
PICARD: Beyond? 
TROI: Very, very advanced, sir, or certainly very, very different. 
WORF: We're at nine point four, sir. 
TASHA: Hostile is now beginning to overtake us, sir. 
PICARD: Are you sure? 
DATA: Hostile's velocity is already warp nine point six, sir. Shall I
put them on the main viewer? 
PICARD: Reverse angle. 
DATA: Magnifying viewer image. 
TASHA: Hostile's velocity is nine point seven, sir. 
PICARD: Worf, inform the engine room we need more. 
DATA: Engine room attempting to comply, sir, but they caution us 
PICARD: Go to yellow alert. Arm aft photon torpedoes. Place them on
ready status. 
TASHA: Torpedoes to ready, sir. 
TASHA: Hostile now at warp nine point eight, sir. 
WORF: Our velocity is only nine point five, sir. 
DATA: Projection, sir. We may be able to match hostile's nine point
eight, sir. But at extreme risk. 
TASHA: Now reading the hostile at warp nine point nine, sir. 
PICARD: Now hear this. Print-out message, urgent, all stations on all
decks. Prepare for emergency saucer sever. You will command the saucer
section, Lieutenant. 
WORF: I am a Klingon, sir. For me to seek escape when my Captain goes
into battle. 
PICARD: You are a Starfleet officer, Lieutenant. 
WORF: Aye, sir. 
PICARD: Make the mark, Data. Note in ship's log that at this startime,
I'm transferring command to the battle bridge. 
(Picard, Data, Yar and Troi leave the Bridge to unnamed crew)

Captain's log, stardate 41153.7. Preparing to
detach saucer section. so that families and the majority of the ship's
company can seek relative safety while the vessel's stardrive,
containing the battle bridge and main armaments, will turn
back and confront the mystery that is threatening us.

