RIKER LAFORGE WORF PICARD CRUSHER DATA

[Battle bridge]

DATA: They say you will be doing this manually,
sir. No automation. 
RIKER: As ordered. 
(They approach the saucer from astern, of course) 
RIKER: Velocity to one half metre per second. Adjust pitch angle,
negative three degrees. Watch your roll angle, conn. All stations,
prepare for reconnection. Thrusters to station keeping. All velocity
zero. Her inertia should do the job now. Lock up now. 
(The clamps rise and the two parts of the ship meet again) 
[Ready room]

PICARD: A fairly routine manoeuvre but you handled
it quite well. 
RIKER: Thank you, sir. I hope I showed some promise. 
PICARD: I do have some questions for you though.
RIKER: Yes, sir, I thought you might. 
PICARD: I see in your file that Captain DeSoto thinks very highly of
you. One curious thing, however, you refused to let him beam down to
Altair Three. 
RIKER: In my opinion, sir, Altair Three was too dangerous to risk
exposing the Captain. 
PICARD: I see. A Captain's rank means nothing to you. 
RIKER: Rather the reverse, sir. But a Captain's life means a great deal
to me. 
PICARD: Isn't it just possible that you don't get to be a Starfleet
Captain without knowing whether it's safe to beam down or not? Isn't it
a little presumptuous of a first officer to second guess his captain's
judgment? 
RIKER: Permission to speak candidly, sir? 
PICARD: Always. 
RIKER: Having been a first officer yourself, you know that assuming
that responsibility must by definition include the safety of the
captain. I have no problem with following any rules you lay down, short
of compromising your safety. 
PICARD: And you don't intend to back off that position? 
RIKER: No, sir, 
PICARD: One further thing. A special favour. 
RIKER: Anything, sir. 
PICARD: Using the same kind of strength you showed with Captain DeSoto,
I would appreciate it if you can keep me from making an ass of myself
with children. 
RIKER: Sir? 
PICARD: I'm not a family man, Riker, and yet, Starfleet has given me a
ship with children aboard. 
RIKER: Yes, sir. 
PICARD: And I don't feel comfortable with children. But, since a
captain needs an image of geniality, you're to see that's what I
project. 
RIKER: Aye, sir. 
PICARD: Welcome to the Enterprise, Commander Riker. 
[Sickbay]

CRUSHER: Naturally I've heard of your case. The
visor implants you wear 
LAFORGE: Is a remarkable piece of bio-electronic engineering by which I
quote see much of the EM spectrum ranging from simple heat and infrared
through radio waves et cetera, et cetera, and forgive me if I've said
and listened to this a thousand times before. 
(Without the Visor, Geordi La Forge's eyes are white sightless orbs,
and he has flashing red lights at his temples) 
CRUSHER: You've been blind all your life? 
LAFORGE: I was born this way. 
CRUSHER: And you've felt pain all the years that you've used this? 
LAFORGE: They say it's because I use my natural sensors in different
ways. 
CRUSHER: Well, I see two choices. The first is painkillers. 
LAFORGE: Which would affect how this works. No. Choice number two? 
CRUSHER: Exploratory surgery. Desensitise the brain areas troubling
you. 
LAFORGE: Same difference. No, thank you, Doctor. 
CRUSHER: I understand. 
LAFORGE: See you. 
[Bridge]

(Riker enters) 
WORF: Yes sir? 
RIKER: Where will I find Commander Data? 
WORF: Commander Data is on special assignment, sir. He's using our
shuttlecraft to transfer an admiral over to the Hood. 
RIKER: An admiral? 
WORF: He's been aboard all day, sir, checking over medical layout. 
RIKER: Why a shuttlecraft? Why wouldn't he just beam over? 
WORF: I suppose he could, sir, but the Admiral's a rather remarkable
man.

