PICARD [OC] TROI CREW [OC] WORF TASHA PICARD RIKER Q Q (JUDGE) RIKER [OC] ZORN CRUSHER DATA
gets plain breaking satisfaction chief typical sensing temper er

[Bridge]

PICARD: They're forcing a difficult decision on me,
Counsellor. 
TROI: But I doubt protecting the Bandi would violate the Prime
Directive. True, they are not actual allies, but 
PICARD: We are in the midst of diplomatic discussions with them.
Lieutenant, lock phasers on that vessel. 
TASHA: Phasers locked on, Captain. 
(There's a flash, and the Judge Q stands there) 
Q: Typical. So typical. Savage lifeforms never follow even their own
rules. 
PICARD: Get off my bridge! 
Q: Interesting, that order about phasers. 
TASHA: Standing by on phasers, Captain. 
Q: Please, don't let me interfere. Use your weapons. 
PICARD: We've no idea who is on that vessel. My order was a routine
safety precaution. 
Q: Really? No idea of what it represents? The meaning of that vessel is
as plain, as plain as the noses on your ugly little primate faces. And
if you were truly civilised, Captain, wouldn't you be doing something
about the casualties happening down there? 
PICARD: Captain to CMO. 
[Sickbay]

PICARD [OC]: Are you reading any of this? 
CRUSHER: Medical teams already preparing to beam down, Captain. 
[Bridge]

PICARD: Compliments on that, Doctor. Any questions?
Starfleet people are trained to render aid and assistance whenever 
Q: But not trained in clear thinking. 
PICARD: Let's consider your thoughts. You call us savages and yet you
knew those people down there would be killed. It is your conduct that
is uncivilised. 
WORF: Sir, they're firing on the planet again. 
PICARD: Go to manoeuvring jets. Position us between that vessel and the
planet. Force fields full on. 
WORF: Aye, sir. Impulse power to (beep) We have no ship control, sir.
It's gone!

[Bandi city]

(Riker painfully hauls himself up from the ground.
He is covered in dust) 
DATA: Are you undamaged? 
RIKER: Yes. You? 
DATA: All systems operating. 
(They hear sobbing, and enter - )

[Zorn's office]

(Zorn is hiding underneath his desk) 
ZORN: Please! Make it stop! You can drive it away! 
RIKER: Drive who away, Groppler? 
ZORN: I don't know. 
DATA: Unlikely, sir. Our records show that you supervised all Bandi
contact with other worlds. 
ZORN: We done nothing anything wrong! 
RIKER: Then if we can learn nothing from you, we'll leave. 
ZORN: No! Oh no, please, don't leave. I'll try to explain. 
(Then he gets beamed away, screaming)
RIKER: First officer to Enterprise. We've lost Zorn. Something like a
transporter beam seems to have snatched him away. 
[Bridge]

RIKER [OC]: Question, sir, could it be this Q? 
Q: None of you knows who transported him. You're running out of time,
Captain. 
TROI: Captain, suddenly I'm sensing something else. Satisfaction.
Enormous satisfaction. 
PICARD: From the same source as before? 
TROI: No, that was on the planet. This is much closer. 
Q: Excellent, Counsellor. He's such a dullard, isn't he? 
CREW [OC]: Captain from Transporter Room. First Officer and Mister Data
have beamed aboard. 
Q: Excellent also. Perhaps with more of these little minds helping 
PICARD: That is enough, damn it! 
Q: Have you forgotten that we have an agreement, 
PICARD: An agreement which you are at this moment breaking by taking
over our vessel, interfering with my decisions. Either leave or finish
us. 
Q: Temper, temper, mon Capitaine. I'm merely trying to assist a pitiful
species. But perhaps I will leave if Commander Riker provides me with
some amusement. 
PICARD: Do nothing that he asks. 
Q (JUDGE): But I ask so little, and it's so necessary if you're to
solve all this. Beam over there with your what do you call it? Your
away team. 
PICARD: I'll risk none of my crew on that unknown. 
Q: You should already know what you'll find there. Or perhaps it's too
adult a puzzle for you. 
RIKER: With all respect, Captain, I want to beam over there. 
Q: You show promise, my good fellow. 
RIKER: Have you understood any part of what he's tried to tell you?
Humanity is no longer a savage race. 
Q: But you must still prove that. 
(And he vanishes) 
PICARD: At least you impressed him, Number One. That's hopeful. 
RIKER: Thank you, Captain. Captain, if he's not open to evidence in our
favour, where will you go from there? 
PICARD: I'll attend to my duty. 
RIKER: To the bitter end? 
PICARD: I see nothing so bitter about that. 
[Crusher's office]

CRUSHER: Can I help you, Captain? 
PICARD: I didn't want you thinking me harsh. Cold blooded. 
CRUSHER: Why oh why would I ever think that. 
PICARD: I didn't welcome you aboard personally, professionally. I made
you come to me on the Bridge. I yelled at your son. Who, as you pointed
out, was quite correct. He does seem to have a very good grasp of
starship operations. 
CRUSHER: You've just won this mother's heart, Captain. 
PICARD: Ah, but, now, your assignment here. I would consider and
approve you a transfer for you. 
CRUSHER: Oh. You consider me unqualified? 
PICARD: Hardly. Your service record shows you're just the Chief Medical
Officer I want. 
CRUSHER: Then you must object to me personally. 
PICARD: I'm trying to be considerate of your feelings, Doctor. For you
to work with a commanding officer who would continually remind you of a
terrible personal tragedy. 
CRUSHER: If I had had any objections to serving with you, I wouldn't
have requested this assignment, Captain. 
PICARD: You requested this posting? 
CRUSHER: My feelings about my husband's death will have no effect on
the way I serve you, this vessel, or this mission. 
PICARD: Ah. Then, welcome aboard, Doctor. 
(They shake hands) 
RIKER [OC]: Riker to Picard. We're ready to beam over, sir. 
PICARD: I, er, I hope we can be friends? 
CRUSHER: Thank you. 
[Transporter room]

(The away team is Data, Tasha, Troi and Riker) 
RIKER: Phasers on stun. Energise. 
