RIKER DATA [OC] TASHA PICARD Q [on monitor] DATA
knowing angle thou god safe zero safety questions velocity

[Battle bridge]

PICARD: Do we have clearance? 
DATA: Aye, sir, into the standard parking orbit. 
PICARD: Make it so. 
TASHA: Commander Riker, sir. 
RIKER: Riker, WT, reporting as ordered, sir. 
PICARD: Is the viewer ready? 
TASHA: All set up, sir. 
PICARD: We'll first bring you up to date on a little adventure we had
on our way here, Commander. Then we'll talk. Welcome aboard. 
TASHA: (to Riker) This way, sir. 
(She sits him down in front of a screen and runs a tape of the Q
encounter on the Bridge) 
Q [on monitor]: Thou art directed to return to thine own solar system
immediately. Go back or thou shalt most certainly die. You can't deny
you're still a dangerous, savage, child race. 
DATA: Message from the saucer module, sir. It will arrive here in fifty
one minutes. 
PICARD: Inform them we'll connect as soon as they arrive. And sent the
Commander to me when he's finished. 
TASHA: Yes, sir. 
(Picard leaves) 
Q [on monitor]: And four hundred years before that, you were murdering
each other in quarrels over tribal god images. Since then there are no
indications that humans will ever change. There are preparations to
make, and when we next meet, Captain, we'll proceed exactly as you
suggest. 
RIKER: He calls that a little adventure? 
[Battle ready room]

PICARD: Come. 
RIKER: Not exactly a run of the mill happening, Captain. 
PICARD: It seems we're alive only because we have been placed on
probation. A very serious kind of probation. (answers
comm.) Go. 
DATA [OC]: The saucer module is now entering orbit with us, sir. 
PICARD: Acknowledged. Commander Riker will conduct a manual docking.
Picard out. 
RIKER: Sir? 
PICARD: You've reported in, haven't you? You are qualified? 
RIKER: Yes, sir. 
PICARD: Then I mean now, Commander. 
[Battle bridge]

DATA: They say you will be doing this manually,
sir. No automation. 
RIKER: As ordered. 
(They approach the saucer from astern, of course) 
RIKER: Velocity to one half metre per second. Adjust pitch angle,
negative three degrees. Watch your roll angle, conn. All stations,
prepare for reconnection. Thrusters to station keeping. All velocity
zero. Her inertia should do the job now. Lock up now. 
(The clamps rise and the two parts of the ship meet again) 
[Ready room]

PICARD: A fairly routine manoeuvre but you handled
it quite well. 
RIKER: Thank you, sir. I hope I showed some promise. 
PICARD: I do have some questions for you though.
RIKER: Yes, sir, I thought you might. 
PICARD: I see in your file that Captain DeSoto thinks very highly of
you. One curious thing, however, you refused to let him beam down to
Altair Three. 
RIKER: In my opinion, sir, Altair Three was too dangerous to risk
exposing the Captain. 
PICARD: I see. A Captain's rank means nothing to you. 
RIKER: Rather the reverse, sir. But a Captain's life means a great deal
to me. 
PICARD: Isn't it just possible that you don't get to be a Starfleet
Captain without knowing whether it's safe to beam down or not? Isn't it
a little presumptuous of a first officer to second guess his captain's
judgment? 
RIKER: Permission to speak candidly, sir? 
PICARD: Always. 
RIKER: Having been a first officer yourself, you know that assuming
that responsibility must by definition include the safety of the
captain. I have no problem with following any rules you lay down, short
of compromising your safety. 
PICARD: And you don't intend to back off that position? 
RIKER: No, sir, 
PICARD: One further thing. A special favour. 
RIKER: Anything, sir. 
PICARD: Using the same kind of strength you showed with Captain DeSoto,
I would appreciate it if you can keep me from making an ass of myself
with children. 
RIKER: Sir? 
PICARD: I'm not a family man, Riker, and yet, Starfleet has given me a
ship with children aboard. 
RIKER: Yes, sir. 
PICARD: And I don't feel comfortable with children. But, since a
captain needs an image of geniality, you're to see that's what I
project. 
RIKER: Aye, sir. 
PICARD: Welcome to the Enterprise, Commander Riker. 
