PICARD [OC] RIKER TROI [OC] WORF Q [on viewscreen] PICARD TROI Q [OC] ZORN
building abundance used pain loneliness emotions damned materials appears

[Bridge]

PICARD: Did you signal the Hood, Commander Riker? 
RIKER: Your exact message. Bon voyage mon ami. 
PICARD: What was my answer, computer? 
Q [OC]: You're wasting time, Captain. (appears on viewscreen) Or did
you think I was gone? 
PICARD: Lieutenant! Do you intend to blast a hole through the viewer?
If the purpose of this is to test humans, your honour, we must proceed
in our own way. 
Q [on viewscreen]: You are dilatory. You have twenty four hours. Any
further delay and you risk summary judgement against you, Captain. 
WORF: Sorry, sir 
RIKER: You reacted fast, Mister Worf. 
PICARD: But futilely. 
WORF: I will learn to do better, sir. 
PICARD: Of course you will. We've a long voyage ahead of us. 
RIKER: What do we do now, Captain? With them monitoring our every move
and every word. 
PICARD: We do exactly what we would do if this Q never existed. If
we're going to be damned, let's be damned for what we really are.

PICARD [OC]: Personal log, stardate 41153.8. Of the twenty four
hours Q allotted us to prove ourselves, eleven have now passed without
incident. And yet I cannot forget Q's prediction that we will face some
critical test.

[Ready room]

RIKER: This planet's interior heat provides an
abundance of geothermal energy, sir. But it's about all this world does
offer. 
PICARD: And it's your belief that this is what made it possible for
them to construct this base to Starfleet standards? 
RIKER: Yes sir. We have to assume that they've been trading their
surplus energy for the construction materials used here. According to
our ship's scans, many of the materials used are not found on this
world. 
PICARD: Perhaps it's like those incidents you describe in your report
as almost magical attempts to please us. 
RIKER: Those events did happen, sir. 
PICARD: None of it suggests anything threatening. If only every life
form had as much desire to please. Ready to beam down? I'm looking
forward to meeting this Groppler Zorn. 
RIKER: I have a feeling there's more to it than just pleasing us, sir. 
[Bridge]

PICARD: As if it's something Q is doing to trick
us? Over here. I've asked the Counsellor to join us in this meeting.
May I introduce our new First Officer, Commander William Riker.
Commander Riker, this is our ship's Counsellor, Deanna Troi. 
TROI [OC]: Do you remember what I taught you, Imzadi? Can you still
sense my thoughts? 
TROI: A pleasure, Commander. 
RIKER: Likewise, Counsellor. 
PICARD: Have the two of you met before? 
RIKER: We have, sir. 
PICARD: Excellent. I consider it important for my key officers know
each other's abilities. 
(They step into the turbolift) 
TROI: We do, sir. We do. 
TROI [OC]: I, too, would never say goodbye, Imzadi. 

[Zorn's office]

PICARD: My crew and I need a bit more information
before we make our recommendations to Starfleet. 
ZORN: No objections to that, but but I'm puzzled over you bringing a
Betazoid to this. If her purpose, sir, is to probe my thoughts 
TROI: I can sense only strong emotions, Groppler. I am only half
Betazoid. My father was a Starfleet officer. 
ZORN: Well, I have nothing to hide, of course. 
PICARD: Good, since we admire what we've seen of your construction
techniques. Starfleet may be interested in your constructing starbases
elsewhere also. 
ZORN: We are not interested in building other facilities. 
RIKER: If I may, Captain. Then a trade, Groppler? Some things you need
in return for lending us architects and engineers
who can demonstrate your techniques. 
ZORN: Bandi do not enjoy leaving their home world. If Starfleet cannot
accept that small weakness, then we will be forced, unhappily, to seek
an alliance with someone like the Ferengi, or 
(Troi gasps) 
PICARD: Counsellor? What is it? 
TROI: Do you want it described here, sir? 
PICARD: Yes. No secrets here if we're to be all to be friends. Agreed,
Groppler? 
ZORN: We ourselves have nothing to hide, of course. 
TROI: Pain. Pain. Loneliness. Terrible loneliness. Despair. I'm not
sensing the Groppler, sir, or any of his people, but it's
something very close to us here. 
PICARD: The source of this, Groppler. Do you have any idea? 
ZORN: No. No, absolutely not. And I find nothing helpful or productive
in any of this! 
PICARD: And that's it? No other comment? 
ZORN: Well what do you expect of us? We offer you a base designed to
your needs, luxurious even by human standards 
PICARD: While evading even our simplest questions about it. We'll
adjourn for now while we all reconsider our positions. 
ZORN: Captain, the Ferengi would be very interested in a base like
this. 
PICARD: Fine. I hope they find you as tasty as they did their past
associates.

