TROI PICARD ENSIGN RIKER WESLEY COMPUTER WESLEY [OC] ZORN DATA
pain office maybe loneliness past location sight half home

[Zorn's office]

PICARD: My crew and I need a bit more information
before we make our recommendations to Starfleet. 
ZORN: No objections to that, but but I'm puzzled over you bringing a
Betazoid to this. If her purpose, sir, is to probe my thoughts 
TROI: I can sense only strong emotions, Groppler. I am only half
Betazoid. My father was a Starfleet officer. 
ZORN: Well, I have nothing to hide, of course. 
PICARD: Good, since we admire what we've seen of your construction
techniques. Starfleet may be interested in your constructing starbases
elsewhere also. 
ZORN: We are not interested in building other facilities. 
RIKER: If I may, Captain. Then a trade, Groppler? Some things you need
in return for lending us architects and engineers
who can demonstrate your techniques. 
ZORN: Bandi do not enjoy leaving their home world. If Starfleet cannot
accept that small weakness, then we will be forced, unhappily, to seek
an alliance with someone like the Ferengi, or 
(Troi gasps) 
PICARD: Counsellor? What is it? 
TROI: Do you want it described here, sir? 
PICARD: Yes. No secrets here if we're to be all to be friends. Agreed,
Groppler? 
ZORN: We ourselves have nothing to hide, of course. 
TROI: Pain. Pain. Loneliness. Terrible loneliness. Despair. I'm not
sensing the Groppler, sir, or any of his people, but it's
something very close to us here. 
PICARD: The source of this, Groppler. Do you have any idea? 
ZORN: No. No, absolutely not. And I find nothing helpful or productive
in any of this! 
PICARD: And that's it? No other comment? 
ZORN: Well what do you expect of us? We offer you a base designed to
your needs, luxurious even by human standards 
PICARD: While evading even our simplest questions about it. We'll
adjourn for now while we all reconsider our positions. 
ZORN: Captain, the Ferengi would be very interested in a base like
this. 
PICARD: Fine. I hope they find you as tasty as they did their past
associates.

[Corridor]

RIKER: Ensign, can you help me find Commander Data?
I understand he's somewhere on this deck. 
ENSIGN: This way, sir. You must be new to these Galaxy class starships,
sir. (to wall) Tell me the location of Commander Data. 
COMPUTER: Lieutenant Commander Data now located in Holodeck area 4J. 
ENSIGN: And as you see, sir, it's pointing you that way. 
RIKER: Thank you 
ENSIGN: You're welcome, sir. 
(She appreciates the sight as he walks away) 
COMPUTER: The next hatchway on your right. 
RIKER: Thank you. 
COMPUTER: You're welcome, Commander Riker. And if you care to enter,
Commander? 
RIKER: I do. 
(The holodeck doors open to show trees and vegetation. There is
birdsong)

[Forest]

RIKER: Hello? 
(He crosses a stream by stepping stones. One wobbles. Someone is trying
to whistle 'Pop goes the Weasel'. Riker finishes the tune) 
DATA: Marvellous. How easily humans do that. I still need much
practice. 
RIKER: There are some puzzles down on the planet that the Captain wants
answered. He suggests that I take you with me on the away team that
I'll be leading. 
DATA: I shall endeavour to function adequately, sir. 
RIKER: Yes. When the captain suggested you, I looked up your record. 
DATA: Yes, sir. A wise procedure, sir, always. 
RIKER: Then your rank of Lieutenant Commander is honorary? 
DATA: No, sir. Starfleet class of '78. Honours in probability mechanics
and exobiology. 
RIKER: Your file says that you're an 
DATA: Machine, Correct, sir. Does that trouble you? 
RIKER: To be honest, yes, a little. 
DATA: Understood, sir. Prejudice is very human. 
RIKER: Now that does trouble me. Do you consider yourself superior to
us? 
DATA: I am superior, sir, in many ways, but I would gladly give it up
to be human. 
RIKER: Nice to meet you, Pinocchio. A joke. 
DATA: Ah. Intriguing. 
RIKER: You're going to be an interesting companion, Mister Data. 
DATA: This woodland pattern is quite popular, sir. Perhaps because it
duplicates Earth so well. Coming here almost makes me feel human
myself. 
RIKER: I didn't believe these simulations could be this real. 
DATA: Much of it is real, sir. If the transporters can convert our
bodies to an energy beam, then back to the original pattern again 
RIKER: Yes, of course. And these rocks and vegetation have much simpler
patterns. 
DATA: Correct, sir. The rear wall. 
RIKER: I can't see it. 
DATA: We're right next to it. 
(He throws a rock at it, and the image pixilates on impact) 
RIKER: Incredible! 
WESLEY [OC]: Commander Riker! 
WESLEY: (at the stream) Commander Riker, isn't this great? This is one
of the simpler patterns. They've got thousands more. Some you just
can't believe. 
RIKER: Careful, the next rock is loose! 
(Wesley falls in the water) 
RIKER: Wesley! 
(Data rushes down and hauls the boy out with one hand) 
WESLEY: Wow! 
[Corridor]

RIKER: Mister Data has agreed to join me on the
away team, Captain. 
PICARD: Very good, Commander. 
WESLEY: Sir, maybe I should get something to wipe this water up. 
PICARD: Good idea.

