TROI LAFORGE TASHA PICARD RIKER CRUSHER DATA

[Observation lounge]

(Geordi is staring out at the stars) 
TASHA: Geordi? Geordi? Lieutenant Yar in the Observation lounge. Send a
team here now. Medical's been worried about you. 
LAFORGE: Help me. Help me to not to give in to the wild things coming
into my mind, 
TASHA: Geordi, my job is security, 
LAFORGE: Tasha, please. 
TASHA: Alright. Alright, helping is more important. Geordi, how can I
help you? 
LAFORGE: Help me to see. Like you do. 
TASHA: But you already see better than I can. 
LAFORGE: I see more. But more isn't better. 
(He takes off his Visor) 
TASHA: Geordi, please put 
LAFORGE: I want to see in shallow, dim, beautiful human ways. 
(He strokes her face) 
TASHA: We'll talk about it, Geordi. Right now I'm going to take you to
Sickbay. All right? 
LAFORGE: Yeah. 
TASHA: Okay. Good. 
[Sickbay]

TASHA: And then we got him down to Sickbay so
Doctor Crusher could examine him. 
PICARD: He wasn't violent? 
TASHA: No, sir. He was very upset. He kept talking about wanting normal
vision. 
PICARD: Thank you, Lieutenant.
(Tasha wipes her forehead and leaves. She's feeling warm) 
CRUSHER: According to our medical readouts, there's still nothing wrong
with him. He looks like he's running a temperature but every instrument
we have says he's not. 
PICARD: Doctor, every person on that ship over there died. Is there any
chance that whatever did it is loose on my ship? 
CRUSHER: If you mean a disease, sir, I'd say there's no chance of it.
We used full decontamination, we examined every team member very
carefully, 
PICARD: The entire crew somehow managed to kill themselves, Doctor. If
it's not a disease, what else could have made them do that? 
CRUSHER: The obvious alternatives would be in areas of insanity and
severe emotional upset. Troi, do you feel anything unusual in the
lieutenant? 
PICARD: Security just told me that he was longing for normal eyesight.
That's a sudden yearning for that. 
TROI: Since his records show no previous mention of that, the fact that
it's happened now could be important. But all I sense from him is
confusion. If I didn't know better, I'd say he was intoxicated. 
CRUSHER: Our tests would have shown that. Also any other signs of
drugs, hallucinogens or other contaminants.

[Bridge]

(Data is going through library records with Riker
hanging over his shoulder) 
DATA: Can you provide more information, sir? Seeking an instance of
someone showering in his or her clothing is 
RIKER: I know. It's like looking for a needle in a haystack. 
DATA: Why should anyone wish to expend his time in such a search? 
RIKER: Correction, Data, I should have said proverbial needle in a
haystack. 
DATA: Ah, a human proverb! As in folklore, or an historical allusion,
or tribal memories 
RIKER: Historical. That's it. I remember I was reading a history of all
the past starships named Enterprise. 
DATA: Enterprise history. Aberrant behavior. Medical cross reference, 
(Picard enters) 
RIKER: Captain, I believe we've have the answer to what happened over
there. 
PICARD: (reading the screen)  The Constitution class
Enterprise, Captain James T. Kirk
commanding. 
RIKER: Similar conditions. They were monitoring a planet that was
breaking up, not a collapsing star as in this case. But there were the
same huge shifts in gravity, 
PICARD: Which somehow resulted in complex strings of water molecules
which acquired carbon from the body and acted on the brain like
alcohol. Data, download this information to Medical immediately. 
DATA: Aye, sir. Downloading. 
PICARD: Fascinating! The entire crew going out of control, 
RIKER: Like intoxication, but worse. Judgment almost completely
impaired, 
PICARD: Until they found this formula, barely in time. Picard to Doctor
Crusher, come in. 
[Crusher's office]

CRUSHER: This is Crusher. Go ahead Captain. 
PICARD [OC]: You can relax, Doctor. 
[Bridge]

PICARD: The answer to all of this is feeding into
your medical banks right now. Including a cure. 
