RIKER WORF PICARD MACDOUGAL WESLEY [on viewscreen] WESLEY CRUSHER DATA
fingerprints humans engineering actually mutated acting touched answer extremely

[Crusher's office]

RIKER: Deanna needs your help. 
CRUSHER: The formula from the old Enterprise didn't work. 
RIKER: What? 
CRUSHER: This water-carbon complex may induce the same symptoms, but
somehow it's different. Maybe it's mutated. But I've got to isolate
it in order to analyse it, 
RIKER: We don't have that kind of time. 
CRUSHER: You brought Deanna in. 
RIKER: She's infected with 
CRUSHER: Then you touched her! Oh, God. And you touched me. Wait! I've
got to quarantine you. 
RIKER: If I don't get the command computer back online soon, none of
this, whatever this is, won't matter. We'll all be dead.

Captain's log, supplemental. It is no longer an
inconvenient, childish prank. Young Wesley Crusher, admittedly a victim
of the Tsiolkovsky infection, is now in control of my starship. 
[Bridge]

PICARD: Wes, this is Captain Picard. Do you see me?

WESLEY [on viewscreen]: Yes sir? 
PICARD: You will now return control of this vessel to the Bridge where
it belongs. At once. 
WESLEY [on viewscreen]: I'm sorry, sir. Why don't you just tell me what
you want done and I'll do it. 
PICARD: Because ship captains control their own vessels, young man! 
WESLEY [on viewscreen]: But, sir, you don't do it yourself. You give
the orders, but someone else does it. What's wrong with giving me the
orders to do it? 
WORF: Captain, getting unusual readings now from the dwarf star. 
PICARD: Stand by a moment on that. Wesley. Wes. Are you aware that
you're acting strangely, that a kind of infection was brought over from
the Tsiolkovsky which acts like intoxication? 
WESLEY [on viewscreen]: Are you saying that's why I feel so so hot? So
strange? 
PICARD: That's a very adult bit of reasoning, Wes, 
WESLEY [on viewscreen]: So you mean I'm drunk! I feel strange, but also
good. 
PICARD: Because, because you've lost the capacity for self-judgment.
Now, alcohol does this, Wesley. But this contaminant we've brought back
from the Tsiolkovsky does it even more so. 
WESLEY [on viewscreen]: What would you do if you got your ship back? 
PICARD: Oh, it's very important I do, Wesley, because I must
immediately lock a tractor beam onto the Tsiolkovsky, then tow it out
of, 
WESLEY [on viewscreen]: Tractor beams are my specialty, Skipper! I'll
contact you when that's done. Wesley out! 
PICARD: Wesley! Wesley! 
(The man at Conn. gets up and staggers off) 
PICARD: Conn, where are you headed? 
WORF: Sir. The star. It's beginning to collapse. 
PICARD: What the hell is happening in Engineering?

[Engineering]

(Shimoda is using the chips as building blocks,
Wesley is muttering and Riker and MacDougal are trying to get past the
force field) 
WESLEY: Lock on. Lock on Tsiolkovsky. 
RIKER: Where's that sonic driver? 
MACDOUGAL: It's over there. Okay, let's see if this cuts out his
tractor beam power. (No, it doesn't) Oh, come on. 
[Crusher's Office]

(The symptoms are starting to set in) 
CRUSHER: Oh no! I must find the answer. I've got to find the answer. 
[Bridge]

WORF: Captain, tractor beam. We just locked onto
the Tsiolkovsky. 
PICARD: Captain to. Wesley. Wesley Crusher, come in! 
(Data enters, smiling and weaving slightly) 
PICARD: Ah, Data. At least you're functioning. 
DATA: Fully, Captain. 
PICARD: Data, intoxication is a human condition. Your mind is
different, it's not the same as 
DATA: We are more alike than unlike, my dear Captain. I have pores.
Humans have pores. I have fingerprints. Humans have fingerprints. My
chemical nutrients are like your blood. If you prick me, do I not leak?

(Crusher enters) 
PICARD: Doctor, 
CRUSHER: Captain, can I see you in your Ready Room? It's a private
matter. No, actually it's an urgent one. 
PICARD: But. Damn it. 
(Data makes as if to lean on a chair, but there is nothing there and he
falls) 

[Ready Room]

PICARD: Now, Doctor 
CRUSHER: I believe I'm infected myself, Captain. 
PICARD: Do you know what the infection is? Come on, quickly. 
CRUSHER: Sorry. It is definitely like alcohol intoxication. The same
lack of good judgment, For example, right now I find you extremely,
extremely, Of course we haven't time for that sort of thing, 
PICARD: What sort of thing? 
CRUSHER: Oh God, would I love to show you. 
PICARD: Doctor, there must be a cure. Some formula, similar to the old
one, 
CRUSHER: Damn it, damn it, Captain. My dear Captain. 
(She tries to kiss him, but he dodges) 
CRUSHER: You owe me something. You do realise that, don't you? I'm a
woman. I haven't the comfort of a husband. A man. 
PICARD: Not now, Doctor. Please.

[Bridge]

(Beverly goes to the turbolift, and Picard waves
her goodbye) 
WORF: Bridge to Riker, Urgent.

