TROI LAFORGE TASHA PICARD HAGON RIKER YAREENA LUTAN CRUSHER
preparation met proud fourteen bring rates officer compound wanted

[Centreplace]

(Picard and Troi beam into a colonnaded area with a
water feature) 
LUTAN: Welcome to my Centreplace, Captain Picard. Consider yourselves
my honoured guests. 
YAREENA: Every hospitality will be accorded you. 
LUTAN: This is my First One, Yareena. 
PICARD: Lutan is a fortunate man. You've met Counsellor Troi. 
LUTAN: Yes. As on your vessel, you have only to name whatever courtesy
we can provide. 
PICARD: Then, sir, the courtesy of seeing Lieutenant Yar. 
LUTAN: Lieutenant Yar will be returned to you tonight at a banquet I
have arranged in your honour. 
PICARD: I'd like to see her now. 
LUTAN: Bring Lieutenant Yar. I find it odd, Captain, that a man of your
experience has such difficulty in understanding ordinary politeness. 
PICARD: Such as the politeness of saying please before abducting
someone? 
LUTAN: The expression please is used only when requesting the person
back. 
PICARD: Yours is a different world. 
LUTAN: With clear and simple ways deeply rooted in our culture. If you
are willing to ask for Lieutenant Yar's return tonight in front of all,
honour will be satisfied. 
TROI: One can see the importance of honour here. 
LUTAN: Honour is everything. 
(Tasha is brought in by two guards. She is not happy) 
PICARD: Have you been treated well, Lieutenant? 
TASHA: Fine, Captain but they're showing some signs of wear. 
YAREENA: There isn't any need to be concerned, Captain. She's being
well cared for. 
PICARD: My ship's company and I are certain of your gentle wisdom in
that. 
LUTAN: For a moment I thought I heard a threat implied. But that would
be foolishness. 
PICARD: Something to be carefully avoided. I agree. 
LUTAN: The festivities for her return to you are in preparation. Shall
we retire till then? 
PICARD: Until tonight, Lutan.

(A juggler is entertaining them when Tasha enters
with her guard. She is seated at Lutan's left, with Yareena at his
right) 
PICARD: Lutan, you have granted us hospitality and the safety of your
Centreplace]. The gifts you give us are rare and precious. We thank
you. And now, according with the customs of your ancestors, whom we
honour and respect, I am here in peace to ask for the return of
Lieutenant Yar. 
LUTAN: Well spoken. There are those among my equals in this gathering
who were wary of my approaching the Federation. I am proud to have
taken this first step towards a treaty, and proud that we have
something of great value to offer you, a priceless life-giving vaccine.
The abduction I have done according to our custom, for all to see. Your
conduct in this matter has been beyond exemplary, Captain Picard, but
now that the moment has come, I find I cannot part with her. 
(General consternation!) 
PICARD: You speak of a code of honour, but what you are saying now,
according to our customs, is called an act of war. 
LUTAN: This is not an act of war, but of love. I want Lieutenant Yar to
become my First One. 
YAREENA: I challenge your right of supercedence! 
HAGON: No woman has challenged supercedence for over two hundred years!

YAREENA: The right is mine and I will have it! Natasha Yar, I challenge
you. A struggle to the death. 
PICARD: No! The challenge is unequivocally refused! 
LUTAN: Then you shall have no treaty, no vaccine, and no Lieutenant
Yar!

Ship's log, First Officer Riker reporting. We have
been informed of the challenge to Lieutenant Yar, and are maintaining
combat readiness round the clock. We are probing Lutan's compound
deeply with our sensors now, still unnoticed.

[Tasha's room]

TASHA: Captain. Deanna. 
PICARD: Did you have any idea, Lieutenant, that Lutan was suddenly
going to announce that he wanted you for his First One? 
TASHA: No, sir. 
PICARD: Tell me what you know about this? 
TASHA: Nothing, sir. 
TROI: But it was a thrill. Lutan is such, such a basic male image and
having him say he wants you 
TASHA: Yes, of course it made me feel good when he. Troi, I'm your
friend and you tricked me. 
TROI: Only so you'd think about it, completely and clearly. 
PICARD: We're all being manipulated, Lieutenant, myself most of all. 
TROI: How simple all this would be without the Prime Directive. 
PICARD: That thought had passed through my mind, Counsellor.

[Bridge]

RIKER: What is this message from Starbase Fourteen?

CRUSHER: It's showing the infection rates, percentage illness
increases. The plague on Styris Four has flared up out of control. 
LAFORGE: They're estimating deaths in the millions, sir. 
RIKER: Captain Picard, come in.

