TROI LAFORGE TASHA PICARD HAGON RIKER CHIEF RIKER [OC] CRUSHER DATA
square proceed hagon durable brief metres window traces make

[Picard's room]

TROI: Captain, I'm your Counsellor. You brought me
with you to Ligon to be of help. 
PICARD: Then help me, please. What is a way out of this? 
TROI: With the vaccine? None. 
(Geordi and Data enter) 
LAFORGE: The weapons in that room, Captain, are surprisingly flexible,
durable, and deadly. 
DATA: And light, as if they were made for women to use. 
LAFORGE: Some of them still have traces of blood and poison. 
PICARD: Poison? 
LAFORGE: Alkaloid base. Lethal. 
PICARD: What about those lengths of metal in the yard outside? 
DATA: Uncertain, sir. However, joined together they would make a
rectangle or square enclosing one hundred twenty one square metres. If
put end to end vertically, they would make a pole forty four metres
high, or two of twenty two. 
PICARD: Thank you, Data. 
DATA: You're welcome, sir. 
(Tasha enters) 
TASHA: She won't budge. She loves him, without reservation. And she
thinks I love him too. 
DATA: Most interesting. Do you? 
TASHA: Of course I don't, Data. As Troi pointed out to me, I'm
attracted to him but that is entirely different. 
RIKER [OC]: Riker to Captain. 
PICARD: Go ahead, Riker. We're alone. 
RIKER [OC]: We're fine tuned enough to see your hosts gathering in the
open area outside, sir. Three of them are heading for your location. 
PICARD: Thank you, Number One. Lieutenant, do you still feel that you
want to go through with this challenge? Do you judge your condition
good? 
TASHA: I judge it excellent, sir. 
(Hagon enters, followed by two guards carrying boxes) 
HAGON: Your weapons, Lieutenant Yar. You may choose your size. 
(She opens a box containing a glove with metal spikes and a curved
blade) 
LAFORGE: Tasha, don't touch the spines. They're poisoned. If you're not
careful, you could kill yourself. 
TASHA: These I understand. 
(Through the window they see Yareena practising on a multi-level
surface, with the metal poles in it. Four lights soar to the sky)

First Officer's log, supplemental. Captain Picard,
faced with a critical need for a vaccine produced on this planet, has
permitted Lieutenant Natasha Yar to engage in a fight to the death. I
have yet to understand his reasoning or his plan.

[Bridge]

(Wesley enters, shyly) 
RIKER: Care to lend a hand? Sit at Ops. 
[Transporter Room]

(Data beams aboard) 
DATA: Was I seen leaving? 
CHIEF: They've got eyes only for the programme. 
(Riker and Crusher enter) 
DATA: Captain Picard wanted no risk of our communications being
overheard. You are to proceed now as he indicated. 
CRUSHER: Captain's orders too. 
RIKER: Does the Captain understand what you and Geordi reported about
those weapons? They're razor sharp, split-second lethal. 
DATA: I'm here to brief you on what he plans.

