TROI LAFORGE TASHA RIKER [OC] HAGON LUTAN PICARD DATA
shopkeeper code says risk joke work truly close ship

[Tasha's room]

TASHA: I know I can win. Not that I'd take her
life, of course, but I'd be glad to embarrass her. The idea of accusing
me of taking 
(Picard enters) 
TROI: The plague? 
PICARD: If anything, even worse than we'd heard. 
TASHA: Which means they desperately need the vaccine, sir. And I know I
can win this challenge. 
PICARD: You have nothing to prove anything here, Lieutenant. 
TROI: But the vaccine is important in this case, sir. 
PICARD: Counsellor, you're the last person I'd expect to argue in
favour of accepting the challenge. 
TROI: Betazoid blood is also practical, Captain. The odds are very good
she'd defeat Lutan's wife easily and you would win all the bargaining
points you need. 
PICARD: The odds are. 
TROI: You have pointed out yourself we are all at risk every day of
every mission. 
PICARD: I want some explanations from Lutan. 
[Centreplace]

HAGON: Lutan, why are you so obsessed with this
Lieutenant Yar? Surely Yareena is more desirable? Certainly she can
offer you much more. She owns many things, many lands. 
(Picard enters, and Lutan stops Hagan talking) 
PICARD: It's a great pity you began by abducting my Security Officer,
Lutan, because I should tell you I do admire the hospitality you offer
here. 
LUTAN: I am in the grip of forces you do not understand. 
PICARD: Some of it I do understand. She is a rather lovely female. 
LUTAN: You surprise me, Captain. What do you know of needs and
feelings? 
PICARD: Nothing. Well, almost nothing in my position of ship's Captain.

HAGON: I see. 
PICARD: But it puzzles me. If you feel that way for Tasha, why have you
challenged her to a fight to the death? 
LUTAN: Not I, Yareena. I am merely a spectator. 
PICARD: Ah, but you are also a man of great importance and wealth. 
HAGON: Great importance, perhaps, but he does (silenced by Lutan) 
PICARD: Ah, I see. You, too, understand the proper value of women. 
LUTAN: We understand they are highly pleasant things, but after all,
unimportant. Except for the land they own. 
PICARD: You are a truly clever person, Lutan. You stand to lose
nothing, either way the challenge goes. 
LUTAN: A code of honour protects one, Captain, like a magic cloak. 
PICARD: I will order Lieutenant Yar to fight. And may your cloak bring
you all you deserve.

[Geordi's Quarters]

(Geordi has his Visor off, and is using an electric
shaver) 
LAFORGE: Come in. 
DATA: Why that razor, my friend? Why not the one I adjusted to perfect
efficiency? 
LAFORGE: Shaving is a human art form, Data. Technological perfection
can shave too close. 
DATA: Puzzling. How can anything be too efficient? 
LAFORGE: Thousands of things are too efficient, Data, at least for
humans. 
DATA: We always come back to the human equation. 
LAFORGE: Exactly. Have you continued to work on it? 
DATA: Constantly, my friend. Particularly the humour. A man goes to a
store to buy some kidneys. 
LAFORGE: Oh, no. (Geordi tries to escape) 
DATA: He says to the shopkeeper, I'd like a pound of kiddillies,
please. The shopkeeper says to him, You mean
kidneys, don't you? The man says, I said kiddillies, diddle I? 
LAFORGE: It's too old. And you didn't tell it very well. 
DATA: How do you know when something is funny? 
LAFORGE: It's not explainable. You just do. 
DATA: Perhaps it is you, Geordi. Includling the kiddillies, I've
learned six hundred sixty two jokes, and you have not 
LAFORGE: Includling the kiddillies! Now, see, that's funny. 
DATA: It was not meant as a joke. The tongue slipped. 
LAFORGE: Oh, boy.
RIKER [OC]: Riker to Commander Data, Lieutenant La Forge. Report to the
Transporter Room for away party duty.

