TROI LAFORGE TASHA PICARD HAGON RIKER LUTAN [on viewscreen] WESLEY YAREENA LUTAN CRUSHER DATA
prime ligonian power people viewer agreed proud high isn

[Bridge]

PICARD: Wesley? 
WESLEY: I haven't stepped one foot on your Bridge, Captain. 
RIKER: It's all right, sir, I'll see that he leaves immediately. 
PICARD: No. 
RIKER: No? 
PICARD: Why don't you sit at Ops next to Lieutenant La Forge. 
WESLEY: Sir? 
LAFORGE: Sir? 
PICARD: Is the whole ship deaf?! Sit down over there, young man.
Temporarily. 
TROI: Captain, we have more information from the briefing studies on
Ligon. 
PICARD: Excuse me. Doctor Crusher, some of this may interest you. Lets
hear the analysis. 
DATA: It is a highly structured society in which people live by strict
codes of honour. For example, what Lutan did is similar to what certain
American Indians once did called counting coup. That's from an obscure
language called French. Counting coup 
PICARD: Mister Data, the French language for centuries on Earth
represented civilisation. 
DATA: Indeed? But surely, sir 
RIKER: I suggest you drop it, Mister Data. 
DATA: Yes, sir. Counting coup could be as simple as touching an enemy
with a stick in battle, or taking something from him and escaping. It
was considered extremely heroic. 
RIKER: And under these circumstances Lutan considers himself heroic,
risking literally everything in the face of our superior power. 
TROI: And it fits Lutan's personality profile as well. He has an
abnormally high need for achievement. Self image to him is a function
of what he thinks he's achieved. Those who set their standards too high
can kill to meet them. 
CRUSHER: Why Tasha? 
TROI: As a Starfleet Security Officer, she may have represented his
riskiest prize. 
DATA: Transmission from the planet surface, sir, Main viewer on. 
PICARD: Well, Lutan, what do you want? 
LUTAN [on viewscreen]: You will display your image, please. 
PICARD: What is required is an image of Lieutenant Yar, well and 
LUTAN [on viewscreen]: Are you making demands, Captain? 
TROI: Sir. According to the Ligon Code of Honour, Lutan has done what
he set out to do, achieve recognition for being daring and bold. 
RIKER: We've studied this in some depth now, sir. The proper thing for
you to do now is to ask to get Tasha back. 
PICARD: Ask for her? 
DATA: Politely, Captain. 
PICARD: And now, Lutan, you have boldly taken Lieutenant Yar from us,
and we ask that you now please return her. 
LUTAN [on viewscreen]: Then come visit us, Captain, and we will return
her to you. 
(a little later) 
TROI: Commander. 
RIKER: Commander? That's quite formal. 
TROI: So is this request, sir. We believe it would be preferable if the
Captain led this away party. 
DATA: Agreed, sir. Their customs concerning guests make it much
preferable. 
RIKER: And I'm very much against that idea. Lutan is clearly a liar,
and devious. Counsellor Troi has admitted she believes he's capable of
killing. It is my duty to keep the Captain from danger, sir. 
DATA: Except that Ligonian custom makes it clear that a visiting leader
becomes an honoured guest. Not us, not second in command, him. 
TROI: And the custom requires that Lutan should die rather than violate
that. 
RIKER: Yes, it seems reasonable put that way. But I warn you, if you
get hurt, I'll put you on report, Captain.

[Centreplace]

(Picard and Troi beam into a colonnaded area with a
water feature) 
LUTAN: Welcome to my Centreplace, Captain Picard. Consider yourselves
my honoured guests. 
YAREENA: Every hospitality will be accorded you. 
LUTAN: This is my First One, Yareena. 
PICARD: Lutan is a fortunate man. You've met Counsellor Troi. 
LUTAN: Yes. As on your vessel, you have only to name whatever courtesy
we can provide. 
PICARD: Then, sir, the courtesy of seeing Lieutenant Yar. 
LUTAN: Lieutenant Yar will be returned to you tonight at a banquet I
have arranged in your honour. 
PICARD: I'd like to see her now. 
LUTAN: Bring Lieutenant Yar. I find it odd, Captain, that a man of your
experience has such difficulty in understanding ordinary politeness. 
PICARD: Such as the politeness of saying please before abducting
someone? 
LUTAN: The expression please is used only when requesting the person
back. 
PICARD: Yours is a different world. 
LUTAN: With clear and simple ways deeply rooted in our culture. If you
are willing to ask for Lieutenant Yar's return tonight in front of all,
honour will be satisfied. 
TROI: One can see the importance of honour here. 
LUTAN: Honour is everything. 
(Tasha is brought in by two guards. She is not happy) 
PICARD: Have you been treated well, Lieutenant? 
TASHA: Fine, Captain but they're showing some signs of wear. 
YAREENA: There isn't any need to be concerned, Captain. She's being
well cared for. 
PICARD: My ship's company and I are certain of your gentle wisdom in
that. 
LUTAN: For a moment I thought I heard a threat implied. But that would
be foolishness. 
PICARD: Something to be carefully avoided. I agree. 
LUTAN: The festivities for her return to you are in preparation. Shall
we retire till then? 
PICARD: Until tonight, Lutan.

(A juggler is entertaining them when Tasha enters
with her guard. She is seated at Lutan's left, with Yareena at his
right) 
PICARD: Lutan, you have granted us hospitality and the safety of your
Centreplace]. The gifts you give us are rare and precious. We thank
you. And now, according with the customs of your ancestors, whom we
honour and respect, I am here in peace to ask for the return of
Lieutenant Yar. 
LUTAN: Well spoken. There are those among my equals in this gathering
who were wary of my approaching the Federation. I am proud to have
taken this first step towards a treaty, and proud that we have
something of great value to offer you, a priceless life-giving vaccine.
The abduction I have done according to our custom, for all to see. Your
conduct in this matter has been beyond exemplary, Captain Picard, but
now that the moment has come, I find I cannot part with her. 
(General consternation!) 
PICARD: You speak of a code of honour, but what you are saying now,
according to our customs, is called an act of war. 
LUTAN: This is not an act of war, but of love. I want Lieutenant Yar to
become my First One. 
YAREENA: I challenge your right of supercedence! 
HAGON: No woman has challenged supercedence for over two hundred years!

YAREENA: The right is mine and I will have it! Natasha Yar, I challenge
you. A struggle to the death. 
PICARD: No! The challenge is unequivocally refused! 
LUTAN: Then you shall have no treaty, no vaccine, and no Lieutenant
Yar!

Ship's log, First Officer Riker reporting. We have
been informed of the challenge to Lieutenant Yar, and are maintaining
combat readiness round the clock. We are probing Lutan's compound
deeply with our sensors now, still unnoticed.

[Tasha's room]

TASHA: Captain. Deanna. 
PICARD: Did you have any idea, Lieutenant, that Lutan was suddenly
going to announce that he wanted you for his First One? 
TASHA: No, sir. 
PICARD: Tell me what you know about this? 
TASHA: Nothing, sir. 
TROI: But it was a thrill. Lutan is such, such a basic male image and
having him say he wants you 
TASHA: Yes, of course it made me feel good when he. Troi, I'm your
friend and you tricked me. 
TROI: Only so you'd think about it, completely and clearly. 
PICARD: We're all being manipulated, Lieutenant, myself most of all. 
TROI: How simple all this would be without the Prime Directive. 
PICARD: That thought had passed through my mind, Counsellor.

