RIKER TASHA PICARD HAGON LUTAN CRUSHER

[Centreplace]

(The Starfleet group enter, Tasha is wearing the
weapon glove) 
TASHA: Any last minute instructions, sir? 
PICARD: Stay alive. We'll hope to do the rest. 
(Yareena enters)
HAGON: I speak for Lutan. The rules are known. Let combat continue
until there is a victor. It will not be interrupted. 
(Yareena goes on the offensive straight away. Tasha pushes her weapon
away and it hits one of the vertical laser beams. It flies off
Yareena's hand into the lap of a spectator)
LUTAN: Combatants, hold your positions. Return the weapon. 
(The spectator dies of his wound and is dragged away. Yareena is given
the glove back and she returns to the business of trying to kill Tasha.
Tasha manages to make Yareena loose her balance) 
HAGON: Careful, Yareena. 
(Finally the two women get into very close combat, and Tasha lands a
blow on Yareena's back. Then she lies across the body and the two are
beamed away)

[Transporter Room]

RIKER: Move! 
TASHA: We're too late. She's growing cold. 
CRUSHER: Sorry, that clashes with my instructions. 
(She injects Yareena) 
TASHA: Oh no. No.

[Centreplace]

PICARD: Exactly what do you find unfair, Lutan?
They fought to the death. You saw the final blow. You know
the effects of your poison. 
LUTAN: But what of your Lieutenant Yar? She is to become my First One
now. 
PICARD: I certainly won't stop her, if she cares to claim that honour. 
HAGON: Remember, you now have all Yareena's lands and wealth now. 
LUTAN: At least all has not been lost. 
RIKER [OC]: Riker to Captain. 
PICARD: Picard here. 
RIKER [OC]: Since you've fulfilled your agreement, Captain, can we now
beam the vaccine aboard? 
LUTAN: Ah, yes, of course. 
PICARD: No problem, Number One. Send down a medical team. 
RIKER [OC]: And to complete our business here, we are locked onto you. 
PICARD: Five to beam up. Energise.

First Officer's log, Stardate 41235.6. I am
returning the conn to Captain Picard as we begin loading the vaccine
supply aboard. Shortly, we hope to signal mission complete.

