TROI TASHA PICARD HAGON RIKER LUTAN DATA

[Cargo Bay One]

TASHA: They've insisted on using their own
transporter device, sir. 
PICARD: It's their way, Lieutenant. Do they have our coordinates? 
TASHA: They have, sir, precisely, and they're standing by for your
signal. 
PICARD: This is Captain Picard aboard the Starfleet vessel Enterprise.
Please do us the honour of visiting our vessel. 
(Five people beam aboard. One rolls out a red carpet, then stands aside
as an imposing man beams in) 
LUTAN: I am Lutan. 
PICARD: Captain Jean-Luc Picard. Welcome aboard. These are my officers.
My second in command, Commander William Riker. Ship's Counsellor,
Deanna Troi. And my Security Officer, Lieutenant Natasha Yar. 
LUTAN: A woman? Your Chief of Security? 
PICARD: Yes, Lutan, that is her expertise. 
LUTAN: I am honoured to meet your officers. This is my Secondary,
Hagon. A sample of the vaccine. 
(Tasha steps forward to intercept Hagon and his box before he gets to
Picard) 
TASHA: My duty, Lutan. I'm sorry, but I'm required to 
HAGON: Out of my way, woman. 
(Tasha does a neat manoeuvre which takes the box and leaves Hagon face
down on the floor) 
LUTAN: How interesting. May we prove as surprising to you. 
TROI: If I may suggest, sir, no apology. In their view, it would weaken
us. 
TASHA: Nothing concealed, Captain. Would you care to accept it? 
LUTAN: Unless you care to examine it further. 
PICARD: Absolutely not. This vaccine sample is a gift of life and we
are honoured at receiving it. Would you do us the additional honour of
now letting us entertain you?
LUTAN: Yes, yes. Please prepare it. We shall join you shortly. 
(Picard, Riker, Troi and Yar turn and leave) 
HAGON: I ask forgiveness. 
LUTAN: They are strange alien beings. You bear no fault. 
HAGON: But the female? 
LUTAN: May be exactly what I have needed.

[Observation Lounge]

(Data brings in a statuette of a horse) 
PICARD: Lutan, we are aware of many of your planet's achievements, and
its unique similarity to an ancient Earth culture we all
admire. On behalf of the Federation, therefore, I would like to present
this token of our gratitude and friendship. From China's Sung Dynasty,
Fourteenth Century. 
DATA: Thirteenth Century, sir. 
PICARD: Ah, yes, indeed. 
LUTAN: A most thoughtful gift. We are pleased. We of Ligon have been
apprehensive about strangers. We are not technologically advanced as
you, yet we possess something you do not. A vaccine which has been
found to be an effective antidote to your dreaded Anchilles fever. If
you respect our customs and if we see that respect, we will be friends.
And we will make the antidote available to all who need it. 
PICARD: If you require respect from us, I am sure that you will see it.

LUTAN: Surrounded by such friendship, I feel no need for my guards. I
will return shortly. Prepare to transport me then. 
(The four guards leave) 
PICARD: If there is something else, any further courtesy? 
LUTAN: Would it possible to see one of your wondrous holodecks? We have
heard how they are used to train your officers. 
PICARD: And used for many other things too. Commander Riker, perhaps
you and Counsellor Troi will demonstrate. 
LUTAN: Would it be possible for Lieutenant Yar to do so, Captain? Some
demonstration of defence training? 
RIKER: We've noticed you're intrigued with her having security
responsibilities. But these things are not at all unusual with us. 
HAGON: With us, it is the duty of women only to own the land, and the
duty of men to protect and rule it. 
TROI: Much the same has happened in human history too. 
TASHA: I'd like to do it, sir. As a sign of respect, perhaps. 
PICARD: Very well. 
TASHA: This way, please.

[Holodeck]

(Tasha enters a command on a control, and puts on
the robe it creates) 
TASHA: Aikido one. (a mat and a white clothed figure appear) It won't
move until my actions activate it. 
LUTAN: You can create people? Without a soul? 
TASHA: It's not a real person, Lutan. It has no life. Everything it
does is controlled by computer. Who am I? Do you hear me? 
(It only moves when she feints an attack) 
TASHA: But it will feel real when it hits you. 
(She demonstrates a couple of throws) 
HAGON: A force like that cannot possibly come from an image, Lutan. 
LUTAN: Then you will show me, Hagon. 
(Hagon gets thrown) 
LUTAN: Thank you, Lieutenant. How very enlightening. 
TASHA: Aikido, vanish. I could create two, even three, but really one
is enough. As you fight with it, it learns, and before long it knows
exactly how to defeat you. 
LUTAN: Even the extraordinary Lieutenant Yar? 
TASHA: It forces us to keep improving. 
LUTAN: Your skill impresses me. I like you. 
