TROI LAFORGE PICARD RIKER LUTAN [on viewscreen] WESLEY CRUSHER DATA
temporarily remember visiting viewer high interested ambition message called

[Bridge]

RIKER: (at Tasha's station) Shields up, photon
torpedoes activated, sir. 
PICARD: What comm. contact have we had with them? 
DATA: With their orbital control station, sir. 
PICARD: Make contact there and on all hailing frequencies. This is the
Enterprise to Lutan and the Ligonian government. You have committed an
unfriendly act. We insist that you reply immediately. 
RIKER: Photon torpedoes ready, sir. 
PICARD: Set them for a display blast a thousand metres short of the
planet's surface. 
RIKER: Set. 
PICARD: Fire. 
RIKER: Do we know the source of their transporter beam? 
LAFORGE: Our own transporter people have tried to trace it, sir, but to
no effect. 
DATA: It reads similar to early Starfleet efforts but uses the
Heglenian shift to convert matter and energy in different. (turns)
Which is actually not important at this time. 
PICARD: This is Captain Picard of the Enterprise with a message to
Lutan, whom I have so far acknowledged as a friend. But you have now
committed what our laws regard as an attack upon us. Since you have
visited our vessel, you most certainly know the
power of it. We insist that you reply to this message. Opinion,
Counsellor. Will they injure Lieutenant Yar? 
TROI: I believe not, sir. They seem mainly curious. In the case of
Lutan, however, I did feel other needs. 
RIKER: What kind of needs? 
TROI: Some sexual attraction from all the males. Lieutenant Yar is
physically very attractive. But with Lutan I felt something else.
Something more like avarice or ambition. 
PICARD: Other comments? 
DATA: If I may, sir. One of the things about them in the briefing
studies was their respect for patience. 
RIKER: Strongly emphasized. And you can see it in the precise,
ritualistic way they do things. I'm worried about Lieutenant Yar too,
sir, but maybe we should sit and wait them out. 
Stardate 41235.32. I am concerned. Over a full day
of waiting with no response from Lutan. We are now testing whether they
are aware of our sensors probing them. So far, we believe we have
pinpointed Lutan's government compound.

[Ready Room]

CRUSHER: The vaccine, sir. 
PICARD: Yes, Doctor? 
CRUSHER: The vaccine. I'm a physician, I've seen death, but not on the
scale this could mean. 
PICARD: You were testing if you can replicate the vaccine. 
CRUSHER: And we can't. The sample works fine when used as an injection,
but it becomes unstable when we try to replicate it. You
must get the vaccine from the planet, Captain. As much as you can.
Immediately. 
PICARD: I'm aware of that, Doctor. 
CRUSHER: You've never had to watch a patient die from this disease. 
PICARD: That's true. But I have seen my share of death. 
CRUSHER: Damn. Where are the calluses we doctors are supposed to grow
over our feelings? 
PICARD: Perhaps the good ones never get them. 
CRUSHER: May I speak about my son, Wesley? 
PICARD: What? Oh, yes. Alright. 
CRUSHER: He seems quite interested in starship operations. And speaking
as a mother, of course, he seems quite knowledgeable. 
PICARD: Well, yes, speaking as a mother. 
CRUSHER: He's on the turbolift. You'll remember you ordered him to stay
off of the Bridge. 

[Bridge]

PICARD: Wesley? 
WESLEY: I haven't stepped one foot on your Bridge, Captain. 
RIKER: It's all right, sir, I'll see that he leaves immediately. 
PICARD: No. 
RIKER: No? 
PICARD: Why don't you sit at Ops next to Lieutenant La Forge. 
WESLEY: Sir? 
LAFORGE: Sir? 
PICARD: Is the whole ship deaf?! Sit down over there, young man.
Temporarily. 
TROI: Captain, we have more information from the briefing studies on
Ligon. 
PICARD: Excuse me. Doctor Crusher, some of this may interest you. Lets
hear the analysis. 
DATA: It is a highly structured society in which people live by strict
codes of honour. For example, what Lutan did is similar to what certain
American Indians once did called counting coup. That's from an obscure
language called French. Counting coup 
PICARD: Mister Data, the French language for centuries on Earth
represented civilisation. 
DATA: Indeed? But surely, sir 
RIKER: I suggest you drop it, Mister Data. 
DATA: Yes, sir. Counting coup could be as simple as touching an enemy
with a stick in battle, or taking something from him and escaping. It
was considered extremely heroic. 
RIKER: And under these circumstances Lutan considers himself heroic,
risking literally everything in the face of our superior power. 
TROI: And it fits Lutan's personality profile as well. He has an
abnormally high need for achievement. Self image to him is a function
of what he thinks he's achieved. Those who set their standards too high
can kill to meet them. 
CRUSHER: Why Tasha? 
TROI: As a Starfleet Security Officer, she may have represented his
riskiest prize. 
DATA: Transmission from the planet surface, sir, Main viewer on. 
PICARD: Well, Lutan, what do you want? 
LUTAN [on viewscreen]: You will display your image, please. 
PICARD: What is required is an image of Lieutenant Yar, well and 
LUTAN [on viewscreen]: Are you making demands, Captain? 
TROI: Sir. According to the Ligon Code of Honour, Lutan has done what
he set out to do, achieve recognition for being daring and bold. 
RIKER: We've studied this in some depth now, sir. The proper thing for
you to do now is to ask to get Tasha back. 
PICARD: Ask for her? 
DATA: Politely, Captain. 
PICARD: And now, Lutan, you have boldly taken Lieutenant Yar from us,
and we ask that you now please return her. 
LUTAN [on viewscreen]: Then come visit us, Captain, and we will return
her to you. 
(a little later) 
TROI: Commander. 
RIKER: Commander? That's quite formal. 
TROI: So is this request, sir. We believe it would be preferable if the
Captain led this away party. 
DATA: Agreed, sir. Their customs concerning guests make it much
preferable. 
RIKER: And I'm very much against that idea. Lutan is clearly a liar,
and devious. Counsellor Troi has admitted she believes he's capable of
killing. It is my duty to keep the Captain from danger, sir. 
DATA: Except that Ligonian custom makes it clear that a visiting leader
becomes an honoured guest. Not us, not second in command, him. 
TROI: And the custom requires that Lutan should die rather than violate
that. 
RIKER: Yes, it seems reasonable put that way. But I warn you, if you
get hurt, I'll put you on report, Captain.

