RIKER LAFORGE TASHA PICARD TROI ARIANA WYATT LWAXANA WRENN [on viewscreen] DATA VALEDA [on viewscreen]
pleasant die showing question yar better leave ask seen

[Bridge]

PICARD: How can you be certain they're receiving
us? 
DATA: Because our sensors are showing a responder echo, sir, on the
frequency they once used. 
LAFORGE: We have a message, sir, coming in from Haven. 
PICARD: On viewer. 
VALEDA [on viewscreen]: Captain, the plague ship is approaching
transport range. 
PICARD: We are aware of that, Electorine. 
VALEDA [on viewscreen]: Do you realise that they can turn this lovely
world of ours into a graveyard? Please, please take action now before
it's too late. 
RIKER: We recognise your situation. 
VALEDA [on viewscreen]: Please destroy them now! 
PICARD: We will not fire on them, Electorine. 
VALEDA [on viewscreen]: You must! 
(transmission ends) 
TASHA: I'm certain I could disable their ship with a phaser burst,
Captain. 
PICARD: And then, Lieutenant? 
DATA: They're within transporter range, sir. 
PICARD: Then we can't delay any longer. Ready the tractor beam,
Lieutenant Yar. Target the ship. Activate on my command. 
TASHA: Tractor beam ready. 
PICARD: Engage. 
TASHA: Got them, sir. 
PICARD: Do we have them securely, Lieutenant? Can they beam out to the
planet? 
TASHA: Negative, sir. They can't leave that ship. 
LAFORGE: I know they can receive us, Captain. At this distance they can
respond with running lights if necessary. 
DATA: Unless they have all died. Their ship could have been brought in
by automation. 
RIKER: Captain! 
(The viewscreen crackles into life, and it's a face Troi recognises) 
TROI: It's the woman in Wyatt's drawings.

Captain's log, stardate 41294.6. Orbiting Haven
with the Tarellian vessel locked in our tractor beam. Question. What
strange of circumstances has caused a woman out of someone's
imagination to appear on the plague ship?

[Bridge]

LAFORGE: Enterprise to Tarellian vessel, are you
receiving us? 
(A balding man moves the young woman aside) 
WRENN [on viewscreen]: My name is Wrenn, and before I enquire why your
tractor beam has trapped us here, is there one aboard your vessel named
Wyatt? 
(Crusher and Wyatt enter. He has his drawings with him) 
WYATT: Captain, I don't understand. 
WRENN [on viewscreen]: It's astounding. Ariana was right. He is here,
daughter. 
ARIANA: Wyatt, you've come just as you promised. 
WYATT: How could I be so accurate? Except for the dream images, I've
never seen her. 
PICARD: Sir, our concern is with the threat your vessel poses to the
planet below. If you're still carrying the infection which destroyed
your world 
WRENN [on viewscreen]: Oh, we still carry it, Captain. My daughter, I,
all eight of us. 
PICARD: Eight? 
WRENN [on viewscreen]: All of us that are left, Captain. Most of the
rest passed on during the years that it took to reach Haven. 
PICARD: If you've come here because of the legend about planet Haven
miraculously healing the sick. 
WRENN [on viewscreen]: We don't ask to make contact with those living
below. All we ask is to be on the edge of some sea,
some unpopulated island, a faraway peninsula. 
PICARD: This is not our planet, sir, but I will present your needs to
those who do govern this world. 
WRENN [on viewscreen]: Present the fact we intend to die here, Captain.
And if we die while caged by your tractor beam, so be it.

[Lwaxana's quarters]

LWAXANA: Oh, Wyatt, how do you like my new
hairstyle? Of course, it's going to look much better on me when I'm
naked. 
WYATT: Mrs. Troi, can I talk to you about something serious? 
LWAXANA: Oh, but I am always serious, dear boy. Only my pleasant nature
makes it appear otherwise. 
WYATT: Please, Mrs. Troi. 
LWAXANA: Yes, that was puzzling. A woman out of another place who
insists that she knows you. 
WYATT: And 
LWAXANA: And whom you've dreamed of all these years. 
WYATT: And I hoped that the way you handle thoughts 
LWAXANA: Fascinating, Wyatt, how easily your thoughts come through. The
answer to the puzzle of Ariana and you is so simple, it's too simple
for most humans to understand. 
WYATT: Too simple? 
LWAXANA: Of course. It's something they all know instinctively but go
to great effort to reject or to build complicated superstitions about.
All life, Wyatt, all consciousness, is indissolvably bound together.
Indeed, it's all part of the same thing. 
WYATT: Yes. I have wondered if something like that 
LWAXANA: That weren't so. And no doubt so has Ariana, which helped the
two of you to make contact. Wyatt, tell me something seriously. Which
of these would look best on me naked? 
