LWAXANA [OC] TROI TROI [OC] PICARD LAFORGE WYATT LWAXANA VALEDA [on viewscreen]
counsellor described laforge medical backs inherently behaviour adequate trouble

[Lwaxana's quarters]

PICARD: We hope you find the room comfortable. 
LWAXANA: Yes, the room is adequate. Small, but adequate. You will of
course adjust the temperature to a civilised level? 
PICARD: I'll see what I can do. And now, if you will excuse me, I'm
sure the two of you have a lot to talk about. 
LWAXANA: Yes, Captain. You may go. 
(Picard backs out of the room with a bow) 
LWAXANA [OC]: You've been slack, little one. Allowed your mental powers
to rust. 
TROI [OC]: Only to avoid confusion, mother. Humans constantly think one
thing and say another. 
LWAXANA [OC]: Yes, they do, don't they. Poor dears. Our style of
complete honesty frightens them. 
TROI: On that subject Mother, there is such a thing as too much honesty
with humans. 
LWAXANA [OC]: If they'd only say what they think instead of hiding it.
An entire shipload of such inconsistency could drive one insane. 
LWAXANA: Darling, I'm terribly sorry about what happened here. Truly I
am. Steven Miller tracked me down and reminded me of the vows we had
made. 
TROI: Mother, I'm having some trouble believing in those vows as once I
did. 
LWAXANA: Deanna. 
TROI: But I'll honour them, of course. I'm a Betazoid. 
LWAXANA: You may find Wyatt an unusual person. I've sensed remarkable
depths in him.

[Bridge]

LAFORGE: Message coming in from Haven, Captain. 
PICARD: On screen. 
(An elegant woman appears) 
VALEDA [on viewscreen]: I'm Valeda Innis, First Electorine of Haven.
Captain Picard? 
PICARD: Greetings, Electorine. I'm Picard. 
VALEDA [on viewscreen]: Your presence honours us, and your timing is
fortuitous, Captain. 
PICARD: In what way? 
VALEDA [on viewscreen]: An incoming vessel has bypassed our stargate,
violating our law. It has refused any attempt at communication. 
PICARD: Are you saying you believe it to be hostile? 
VALEDA [on viewscreen]: Failure to communicate is inherently hostile.
We have no defensive capabilities here and our treaty with the
Federation specifies your obligations in that matter. 
PICARD: Agreed. But let's hope it doesn't become a defence matter. 
VALEDA [on viewscreen]: Of course, Captain, but I'm very happy we have
you here.

[Wyatt's quarters]

WYATT: Come in. 
TROI: I wanted to apologise for my mother's behaviour. 
WYATT: Your mother's honest. I respect that. 
TROI: Yes, but she never lets up. 
WYATT: I'll admit, her honesty is a bit persistent. 
TROI: I never heard it described better. But it is a Betazoid trait.
I'll try to be only half as annoying. 
WYATT: Let's see, what can I tell you about myself? I'm a medical
doctor, for whatever that's worth. 
TROI: Doctor? 
WYATT: If you're picking up my thoughts, you'd know. You can do that,
can't you? 
TROI: Sometimes. This must be what Mother felt about you. I believe we
could read each other eventually. 
WYATT: Can I take that as a compliment? 
TROI: Absolutely. I only ever felt this, well, with someone who's on
this ship. 
WYATT: Oh? Do I have competition? 
TROI: No. What he wants most is to captain a starship. 
WYATT: What I want is to cure people. 
TROI: Well, I'm a practicing psychologist. Maybe we can work in
concert. We are going to be together a long time. 
WYATT: Yes. That is the point of marriage, I suppose. 
TROI: I really thought you'd tell me you were an artist. I just felt
your mind very much on these. They are your work, aren't they? 
WYATT: I can see it'll be very hard to keep secrets from you. 
TROI: This is why you were surprised when you first saw me. This woman.
You thought that I would be this woman. 
WYATT: I have seen this face ever since I was a boy. When I closed my
eyes at night, I could hear her whispering my name. And knowing you
were Betazoid, I just assumed it was you projecting yourself into my
mind. 
TROI: I'm sorry I'm not what you hoped for. 
WYATT: No. Please don't mistake a childish fantasy for disappointment.
You are so beautiful. I feel honoured. 
TROI: You've no idea who she is? 
WYATT: It doesn't really matter now.

Captain's personal log. I trust my concern over the
problems of ship's Counsellor Troi are not based merely on losing a
highly valuable crew member. But it seems to me that she is trapped by
a custom of her home world which the facts of the twenty-fourth century
life have made unwise and unworkable. I wish
I could intervene.

