TROI LAFORGE TASHA PICARD RIKER VICTORIA WYATT LWAXANA STEVEN VALEDA CRUSHER DATA

[Lounge]

VICTORIA: We've talked it over, Captain, and the
ceremony will be tomorrow if you agree. And Captain, would it be
possible for you to perform the ceremony? 
PICARD: Well, yes, of course, if all parties request it. 
LWAXANA: All parties do not request it. It's simply out of the
question. I'm sorry, Captain, but unfortunately you are not practiced
in the ways of Betazed joining. 
PICARD: No, that's quite true. 
LWAXANA: Therefore you are totally unqualified. 
VICTORIA: He is qualified to lead a traditional Earth ceremony, which
is what this will be. 
LWAXANA: I thought you had no sense of humour. Earth wedding?
Ridiculous! 
VICTORIA: My family and I are living on Earth now. 
LWAXANA: So, that's why you want that backward ritual. Terrible,
Captain, to see a woman go downhill like this. 
TROI: Mother! 
VICTORIA: Downhill? 
LWAXANA: The matter is settled. Mister Homn will conduct the joining. 
STEVEN: But Homn can't even talk! 
LWAXANA: No matter, he is highly adept in the acts of sign language.
The matter is closed. 
VICTORIA: Who are you to tell us what we should do? 
LWAXANA: Your ignorance is astonishing. I am Lwaxana Troi. Daughter of
The Fifth House, Holder of the Sacred Chalice of Rixx, Heir to the Holy
Rings of Betazed. Who are you? 
PICARD: Ladies and gentlemen, it is a Starfleet tradition that at
social gatherings, disputes are not permitted. I hereby declare
therefore all disagreements resolved. 
(At table, during the meal) 
PICARD: A toast. To the young couple and their families. 
VICTORIA: And? 
PICARD: And may this union be a productive one. 
(General hear, hear, and cheers) 
(Data is standing by Mr. Homn, who is standing by a small gong, and
knocking back drinks as if he's spent a month in a desert) 
DATA: Considering the rate at which you imbibe, sir, is your lineage at
all mixed with human? 
(Homn exaggeratedly sticks his nose in the air. Such an insult, young
android) 
WYATT: Is it true, Captain, that there's a Tarellian ship headed for
Haven? 
(Lwaxana takes a bite of food, Homn strikes the gong. This goes on
during the following conversation and gets on everyone's nerves) 
PICARD: Yes, it is true. 
WYATT: That's amazing. I've read everything I could about them.
Biological virus analysis was a favourite subject at medical school. 
CRUSHER: In which case I'd very much like to confer with you. I'm
pleased to have a medical colleague aboard. 
WYATT: Yes, ma'am, Doctor. Would it be possible to prepare some medical
needs, geared toward the Tarellian's probable needs? We could beam it
over without any fear of infection. 
PICARD: What do you think, Doctor? 
CRUSHER: It's a very considerate idea. Our Sickbay is at your disposal,
Doctor. 
WYATT: Thank you. 
PICARD: Mister Data? 
DATA: Sir? 
PICARD: You're circling the room like a buzzard. 
DATA: Perhaps being human yourself, sir, you do not find them as
intriguing as I. 
VICTORIA: Must he do that? 
LWAXANA: As you well know, it is the Betazed way of giving thanks for
the food we eat. 
VICTORIA: You giving thanks? Besides, you never did this before. 
LWAXANA: I do it now. Unlike some people, I am in growth. 
(The apparently decorative leaf-like thing on her sleeve, shakes at
her) 
LWAXANA: Victoria, I've forgotten whether you enjoy pets or not. 
VICTORIA: Love them, of course. 
LWAXANA: Good. 
(So the thing on her sleeve slides over to Victoria Miller, who of
course screams) 
LWAXANA: Gently, gently. Poor baby, did she hurt you? 
RIKER: Captain. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to spend some time
considering the Tarellian situation 
PICARD: Yes, of course. 
RIKER: Ladies and gentlemen. 
(Riker leaves) 
DATA: Mrs. Troi, I'm very interested in the Betazed ceremony you
mentioned. Could you tell us more? 
LWAXANA: Why, I'd be delighted, Commander. It's an ancient ceremony,
widely regarded as the most beautiful in the universe. After the young
couple have removed their clothing 
TASHA: The bride and groom go naked? 
LWAXANA: All guests must go unclothed. It honours the act of love being
celebrated. Oh, you needn't worry too much, dear. Your body's not that
bad. Besides, your husband quite likes the idea of seeing me unclothed.

VICTORIA: Steven! 
LWAXANA: You did know he's attracted to me, didn't you? 
STEVEN: Untrue! I don't. 
TROI: Stop this petty bickering, all of you! Especially you, Mother! 
(Troi storms out, knocking over the gong on her way)
DATA: Could you please continue the petty bickering? I find it most
intriguing.

[Holodeck]

(Riker is brooding in an evening desert landscape) 
TROI: May I join you? 
RIKER: I will miss you, Deanna. 
TROI: I'm no longer Imzadi to you? 
RIKER: You taught me that word means my beloved. 
TROI: And the human heart is too small to permit that feeling now. 
RIKER: Have you discussed this with Wyatt? I think you should. It's
also damned unfair to me. 
TROI: I understand. I should have realised. Humans, young human males
particularly, have difficulty separating platonic love and physical
love. 
RIKER: The problem is, Imzadi, I couldn't. Not now. Call it an old
Earth tradition, habit of the beasts, whatever. 
WYATT: Hello, you two. 
RIKER: We were just talking about you, Wyatt. 
WYATT: This is incredible. 
RIKER: Yes. And in that discussion, I 
TROI: Actually, Bill was concerned that you might be upset that I care
deeply for him, too. 
WYATT: Oh. You're the one who wants to be a starship captain. Yes, I've
heard that bonding or marriage would complicate things in that case. To
each his own. Good luck with that ambition. And I very much respected
what you did tonight. 
TROI: All I did was lose my temper. 
RIKER: If you'll excuse me. 
WYATT: Of course. Running all this is a big job. 
(Riker leaves) 
WYATT: In fact, you shamed them into compromise. So they've decided
that the joining will be half Betazed, half Earth. The Captain will do
the ceremony and Mister Homn will be my best man. 
TROI: And we'll take our clothes half off? 
WYATT: Some of us still go naked. You do, I do, your mother, my father,
but not my mother or the guests. 
TROI: Captain Picard will be very relieved. How did you manage it? 
WYATT: Your mother relented. And I just caught my father practicing
naked in front of his mirror. And so, a question I should have asked
before. Deanna, do you really want to go through with this? 
TROI: Yes, I want to. 
WYATT: I'm a very lucky man.
(They kiss, one short, one very long)

Captain's log, supplemental. All attempts at
warning off the Tarellian ship have failed. They still refuse to
communicate and I am growing concerned.

[Bridge]

PICARD: How can you be certain they're receiving
us? 
DATA: Because our sensors are showing a responder echo, sir, on the
frequency they once used. 
LAFORGE: We have a message, sir, coming in from Haven. 
PICARD: On viewer. 
VALEDA [on viewscreen]: Captain, the plague ship is approaching
transport range. 
PICARD: We are aware of that, Electorine. 
VALEDA [on viewscreen]: Do you realise that they can turn this lovely
world of ours into a graveyard? Please, please take action now before
it's too late. 
RIKER: We recognise your situation. 
VALEDA [on viewscreen]: Please destroy them now! 
PICARD: We will not fire on them, Electorine. 
VALEDA [on viewscreen]: You must! 
(transmission ends) 
TASHA: I'm certain I could disable their ship with a phaser burst,
Captain. 
PICARD: And then, Lieutenant? 
DATA: They're within transporter range, sir. 
PICARD: Then we can't delay any longer. Ready the tractor beam,
Lieutenant Yar. Target the ship. Activate on my command. 
TASHA: Tractor beam ready. 
PICARD: Engage. 
TASHA: Got them, sir. 
PICARD: Do we have them securely, Lieutenant? Can they beam out to the
planet? 
TASHA: Negative, sir. They can't leave that ship. 
LAFORGE: I know they can receive us, Captain. At this distance they can
respond with running lights if necessary. 
DATA: Unless they have all died. Their ship could have been brought in
by automation. 
RIKER: Captain! 
(The viewscreen crackles into life, and it's a face Troi recognises) 
TROI: It's the woman in Wyatt's drawings.

Captain's log, stardate 41294.6. Orbiting Haven
with the Tarellian vessel locked in our tractor beam. Question. What
strange of circumstances has caused a woman out of someone's
imagination to appear on the plague ship?

