TROI LAFORGE TASHA PICARD RIKER WYATT CRUSHER DATA
woman thank people secrets second requires damned fact knowledge

[Wyatt's quarters]

WYATT: Come in. 
TROI: I wanted to apologise for my mother's behaviour. 
WYATT: Your mother's honest. I respect that. 
TROI: Yes, but she never lets up. 
WYATT: I'll admit, her honesty is a bit persistent. 
TROI: I never heard it described better. But it is a Betazoid trait.
I'll try to be only half as annoying. 
WYATT: Let's see, what can I tell you about myself? I'm a medical
doctor, for whatever that's worth. 
TROI: Doctor? 
WYATT: If you're picking up my thoughts, you'd know. You can do that,
can't you? 
TROI: Sometimes. This must be what Mother felt about you. I believe we
could read each other eventually. 
WYATT: Can I take that as a compliment? 
TROI: Absolutely. I only ever felt this, well, with someone who's on
this ship. 
WYATT: Oh? Do I have competition? 
TROI: No. What he wants most is to captain a starship. 
WYATT: What I want is to cure people. 
TROI: Well, I'm a practicing psychologist. Maybe we can work in
concert. We are going to be together a long time. 
WYATT: Yes. That is the point of marriage, I suppose. 
TROI: I really thought you'd tell me you were an artist. I just felt
your mind very much on these. They are your work, aren't they? 
WYATT: I can see it'll be very hard to keep secrets from you. 
TROI: This is why you were surprised when you first saw me. This woman.
You thought that I would be this woman. 
WYATT: I have seen this face ever since I was a boy. When I closed my
eyes at night, I could hear her whispering my name. And knowing you
were Betazoid, I just assumed it was you projecting yourself into my
mind. 
TROI: I'm sorry I'm not what you hoped for. 
WYATT: No. Please don't mistake a childish fantasy for disappointment.
You are so beautiful. I feel honoured. 
TROI: You've no idea who she is? 
WYATT: It doesn't really matter now.

Captain's personal log. I trust my concern over the
problems of ship's Counsellor Troi are not based merely on losing a
highly valuable crew member. But it seems to me that she is trapped by
a custom of her home world which the facts of the twenty-fourth century
life have made unwise and unworkable. I wish
I could intervene.

[Bridge]

DATA: On the viewer, Captain. Unidentified vessel
travelling sub-warp speed, bearing two three five point seven. 
PICARD: Sub-warp? It's several hours away then? Let's take a look at
it. Enlarge to maximum. 
LAFORGE: Increasing magnification, sir. 
PICARD: Mister Data, is that the trouble I believe it is? 
DATA: If you mean a Tarellian vessel, sir, it is. 
RIKER: I thought the Tarellians were all dead What are the poor devils
doing here? 
PICARD: Picard to Sickbay. Doctor Crusher to Bridge, urgent. They must
not be permitted them to destroy us. Or the planet.

Captain's log, supplemental. It has been believed
the Tarellian race was extinct, an assumption contradicted now by the
sight of one of their vessels approaching Haven.

[Observation lounge]

RIKER: The fact that it's travelling at its present
velocity suggests a possible answer. 
LAFORGE: A damaged vessel, sir. That could explain it. 
RIKER: If it were unable to reach warp speed, it would have taken all
these years to get here. 
PICARD: Go on with your briefing, Mister Data. 
DATA: Tarella was class M, much like your Earth, with similar humanoid
life forms.
Unfortunately they faced the old story of hatred out powering
intelligence. 
PICARD: There were hostilities? 
DATA: Between the inhabitants of their two land masses, resulting in
one group unleashing a deadly biological weapon on the other. 
CRUSHER: And in the end the other became infected as well. Makes one
question the sanity of humanoid forms. 
PICARD: Can you identify the origin of the infection, Doctor? 
CRUSHER: The Tarellians had reached Earth's late twentieth century
level of knowledge. That's all you need if you're a damned fool. A
deadly, infectious virus which at that modest level of knowledge is not
difficult to grow. 
TASHA: We learned the rest of the story in security training. Some
Tarellians made it to other worlds only to die along with the
populations they infected. 
LAFORGE: It's pretty well covered in Academy training now, Captain.
Many of them tried to avoid other civilised worlds as they escaped only
to be hunted down and destroyed anyway. 
PICARD: And it was believed that the last Tarellian vessel was
destroyed eight years ago by the Alcyones. 
LAFORGE: Yes, sir. 
PICARD: Exactly when will they reach Haven? 
DATA: Exactly thirteen hours, nine minutes, twenty two seconds, three
hundred fifty 
PICARD: Thank you. Which creates a very difficult problem for the
Enterprise. Our treaty requires us to protect Haven, and Federation
policy requires that we assist life forms in need, which must include
the Tarellians. I'll want you to help me find some answers. Thank you.
However, there will be ample time for your second assignment, voluntary
of course. The pre-joining announcement of Counsellor Deanna Troi 
(Riker leaves) 
PICARD: And Wyatt Miller.

