WRENN TROI LAFORGE TASHA PICARD RIKER ARIANA WYATT VALEDA DATA

[Holodeck]

(Riker is brooding in an evening desert landscape) 
TROI: May I join you? 
RIKER: I will miss you, Deanna. 
TROI: I'm no longer Imzadi to you? 
RIKER: You taught me that word means my beloved. 
TROI: And the human heart is too small to permit that feeling now. 
RIKER: Have you discussed this with Wyatt? I think you should. It's
also damned unfair to me. 
TROI: I understand. I should have realised. Humans, young human males
particularly, have difficulty separating platonic love and physical
love. 
RIKER: The problem is, Imzadi, I couldn't. Not now. Call it an old
Earth tradition, habit of the beasts, whatever. 
WYATT: Hello, you two. 
RIKER: We were just talking about you, Wyatt. 
WYATT: This is incredible. 
RIKER: Yes. And in that discussion, I 
TROI: Actually, Bill was concerned that you might be upset that I care
deeply for him, too. 
WYATT: Oh. You're the one who wants to be a starship captain. Yes, I've
heard that bonding or marriage would complicate things in that case. To
each his own. Good luck with that ambition. And I very much respected
what you did tonight. 
TROI: All I did was lose my temper. 
RIKER: If you'll excuse me. 
WYATT: Of course. Running all this is a big job. 
(Riker leaves) 
WYATT: In fact, you shamed them into compromise. So they've decided
that the joining will be half Betazed, half Earth. The Captain will do
the ceremony and Mister Homn will be my best man. 
TROI: And we'll take our clothes half off? 
WYATT: Some of us still go naked. You do, I do, your mother, my father,
but not my mother or the guests. 
TROI: Captain Picard will be very relieved. How did you manage it? 
WYATT: Your mother relented. And I just caught my father practicing
naked in front of his mirror. And so, a question I should have asked
before. Deanna, do you really want to go through with this? 
TROI: Yes, I want to. 
WYATT: I'm a very lucky man.
(They kiss, one short, one very long)

Captain's log, supplemental. All attempts at
warning off the Tarellian ship have failed. They still refuse to
communicate and I am growing concerned.

[Bridge]

PICARD: How can you be certain they're receiving
us? 
DATA: Because our sensors are showing a responder echo, sir, on the
frequency they once used. 
LAFORGE: We have a message, sir, coming in from Haven. 
PICARD: On viewer. 
VALEDA [on viewscreen]: Captain, the plague ship is approaching
transport range. 
PICARD: We are aware of that, Electorine. 
VALEDA [on viewscreen]: Do you realise that they can turn this lovely
world of ours into a graveyard? Please, please take action now before
it's too late. 
RIKER: We recognise your situation. 
VALEDA [on viewscreen]: Please destroy them now! 
PICARD: We will not fire on them, Electorine. 
VALEDA [on viewscreen]: You must! 
(transmission ends) 
TASHA: I'm certain I could disable their ship with a phaser burst,
Captain. 
PICARD: And then, Lieutenant? 
DATA: They're within transporter range, sir. 
PICARD: Then we can't delay any longer. Ready the tractor beam,
Lieutenant Yar. Target the ship. Activate on my command. 
TASHA: Tractor beam ready. 
PICARD: Engage. 
TASHA: Got them, sir. 
PICARD: Do we have them securely, Lieutenant? Can they beam out to the
planet? 
TASHA: Negative, sir. They can't leave that ship. 
LAFORGE: I know they can receive us, Captain. At this distance they can
respond with running lights if necessary. 
DATA: Unless they have all died. Their ship could have been brought in
by automation. 
RIKER: Captain! 
(The viewscreen crackles into life, and it's a face Troi recognises) 
TROI: It's the woman in Wyatt's drawings.

Captain's log, stardate 41294.6. Orbiting Haven
with the Tarellian vessel locked in our tractor beam. Question. What
strange of circumstances has caused a woman out of someone's
imagination to appear on the plague ship?

[Bridge]

LAFORGE: Enterprise to Tarellian vessel, are you
receiving us? 
(A balding man moves the young woman aside) 
WRENN [on viewscreen]: My name is Wrenn, and before I enquire why your
tractor beam has trapped us here, is there one aboard your vessel named
Wyatt? 
(Crusher and Wyatt enter. He has his drawings with him) 
WYATT: Captain, I don't understand. 
WRENN [on viewscreen]: It's astounding. Ariana was right. He is here,
daughter. 
ARIANA: Wyatt, you've come just as you promised. 
WYATT: How could I be so accurate? Except for the dream images, I've
never seen her. 
PICARD: Sir, our concern is with the threat your vessel poses to the
planet below. If you're still carrying the infection which destroyed
your world 
WRENN [on viewscreen]: Oh, we still carry it, Captain. My daughter, I,
all eight of us. 
PICARD: Eight? 
WRENN [on viewscreen]: All of us that are left, Captain. Most of the
rest passed on during the years that it took to reach Haven. 
PICARD: If you've come here because of the legend about planet Haven
miraculously healing the sick. 
WRENN [on viewscreen]: We don't ask to make contact with those living
below. All we ask is to be on the edge of some sea,
some unpopulated island, a faraway peninsula. 
PICARD: This is not our planet, sir, but I will present your needs to
those who do govern this world. 
WRENN [on viewscreen]: Present the fact we intend to die here, Captain.
And if we die while caged by your tractor beam, so be it.

