TROI LAFORGE PICARD RIKER WYATT DATA VALEDA [on viewscreen]
bearing riker viewer screen hard honest marriage picking medical

[Bridge]

LAFORGE: Message coming in from Haven, Captain. 
PICARD: On screen. 
(An elegant woman appears) 
VALEDA [on viewscreen]: I'm Valeda Innis, First Electorine of Haven.
Captain Picard? 
PICARD: Greetings, Electorine. I'm Picard. 
VALEDA [on viewscreen]: Your presence honours us, and your timing is
fortuitous, Captain. 
PICARD: In what way? 
VALEDA [on viewscreen]: An incoming vessel has bypassed our stargate,
violating our law. It has refused any attempt at communication. 
PICARD: Are you saying you believe it to be hostile? 
VALEDA [on viewscreen]: Failure to communicate is inherently hostile.
We have no defensive capabilities here and our treaty with the
Federation specifies your obligations in that matter. 
PICARD: Agreed. But let's hope it doesn't become a defence matter. 
VALEDA [on viewscreen]: Of course, Captain, but I'm very happy we have
you here.

[Wyatt's quarters]

WYATT: Come in. 
TROI: I wanted to apologise for my mother's behaviour. 
WYATT: Your mother's honest. I respect that. 
TROI: Yes, but she never lets up. 
WYATT: I'll admit, her honesty is a bit persistent. 
TROI: I never heard it described better. But it is a Betazoid trait.
I'll try to be only half as annoying. 
WYATT: Let's see, what can I tell you about myself? I'm a medical
doctor, for whatever that's worth. 
TROI: Doctor? 
WYATT: If you're picking up my thoughts, you'd know. You can do that,
can't you? 
TROI: Sometimes. This must be what Mother felt about you. I believe we
could read each other eventually. 
WYATT: Can I take that as a compliment? 
TROI: Absolutely. I only ever felt this, well, with someone who's on
this ship. 
WYATT: Oh? Do I have competition? 
TROI: No. What he wants most is to captain a starship. 
WYATT: What I want is to cure people. 
TROI: Well, I'm a practicing psychologist. Maybe we can work in
concert. We are going to be together a long time. 
WYATT: Yes. That is the point of marriage, I suppose. 
TROI: I really thought you'd tell me you were an artist. I just felt
your mind very much on these. They are your work, aren't they? 
WYATT: I can see it'll be very hard to keep secrets from you. 
TROI: This is why you were surprised when you first saw me. This woman.
You thought that I would be this woman. 
WYATT: I have seen this face ever since I was a boy. When I closed my
eyes at night, I could hear her whispering my name. And knowing you
were Betazoid, I just assumed it was you projecting yourself into my
mind. 
TROI: I'm sorry I'm not what you hoped for. 
WYATT: No. Please don't mistake a childish fantasy for disappointment.
You are so beautiful. I feel honoured. 
TROI: You've no idea who she is? 
WYATT: It doesn't really matter now.

Captain's personal log. I trust my concern over the
problems of ship's Counsellor Troi are not based merely on losing a
highly valuable crew member. But it seems to me that she is trapped by
a custom of her home world which the facts of the twenty-fourth century
life have made unwise and unworkable. I wish
I could intervene.

[Bridge]

DATA: On the viewer, Captain. Unidentified vessel
travelling sub-warp speed, bearing two three five point seven. 
PICARD: Sub-warp? It's several hours away then? Let's take a look at
it. Enlarge to maximum. 
LAFORGE: Increasing magnification, sir. 
PICARD: Mister Data, is that the trouble I believe it is? 
DATA: If you mean a Tarellian vessel, sir, it is. 
RIKER: I thought the Tarellians were all dead What are the poor devils
doing here? 
PICARD: Picard to Sickbay. Doctor Crusher to Bridge, urgent. They must
not be permitted them to destroy us. Or the planet.

Captain's log, supplemental. It has been believed
the Tarellian race was extinct, an assumption contradicted now by the
sight of one of their vessels approaching Haven.

