RIKER LAFORGE CREWMAN TASHA PICARD WORF DATA MAMAN
gone right sitting turbolift steps doors table tell galaxy

[Bridge]

PICARD: All stop. 
LAFORGE: Answering all stop, Captain. 
DATA: According to the instruments, sir, our speed never exceeded warp
one point five. 
LAFORGE: All stopped, sir. 
PICARD: Yes, but where is this place? 
(Lights are dancing in a blue scene) 
DATA: Where none have gone before.

Captain's log, stardate 41263.3. Instead of
returning to our own galaxy, the Enterprise has gone forward
to a place in the universe which is uncharted and unknown. Our present
position puts us at over a billion light years from our galaxy.

[Bridge]

PICARD: Data, you have the helm. I'll be in
Engineering. 
(Picard leaves) 
(There is a grunting sound, and Worf turns to see what looks like a
hairy pig with a horn and wicked looking spines) 
TASHA: What is it? 
WORF: A Klingon Targ! My pet. From home, but when I was a child. 
TASHA: You're telling me that's a kitty-cat? 
WORF: Yes, I suppose you could call it that. 
(The Targ vanishes, and a ginger cat lands on Tasha's console)

[Turbolift]

(The turbolift doors open, and Picard nearly steps
out - into space rushing by at warp speed. He pulls himself back in,
the doors close then open again into an ordinary corridor. He steps out
carefully)

[Bridge]

(Tasha is fondling the cat) 
TASHA: You darling, what are you doing here?

[Tunnel]

(Then she's back on her home planet, and a rape
gang is after her) 
TASHA: Now, run. This isn't a safe place at all. 
(Someone puts a hand on her shoulder)

[Bridge]

(Tasha jumps) 
LAFORGE: Tasha, what's wrong? You look scared to death. 
TASHA: I was, I was. This is crazy. I was at the colony where I grew
up, being chased by a rape gang 
LAFORGE: Are you all right? Well, you're safe now. 
(Elsewhere on board - a group in period costume is playing Mozart Eine
Kliene Nachtmusik, except for one Starfleet violinist)

[Corridor]

(Picard encounters a man and woman running from
something) 
CREWMAN: Captain! Captain, we need help. 
PICARD: What's wrong? 
CREWMAN: Don't you see what's following us? 
(They carry on running) 
(Picard passes an open door and sees a ballerina in a golden tutu
pirouetting) 
PICARD: Ensign, what are you doing? 
(Her tutu becomes her uniform again) 
(The violinist is sitting at a table, having a meal) 
(Picard turns a corner and meets an elderly woman sitting at a tea
table) 
MAMAN: (french accent) You look tense, Jean-Luc. Come and have a cup of
tea. 
PICARD: Maman? 
MAMAN: I'll make it good and strong, the way you like it. We will have
a nice long talk. 
PICARD: This can't be. You've been 
MAMAN: Dead? But I'm always with you, you know that. 
PICARD: Yes, I've felt that. But why now, suddenly. 
MAMAN: You mean out here? At what you say us the end of the universe?
Or do you see this as the beginning of it? 
PICARD: We believe it the outer rim. Maman, do you understand these
things? Can you tell me where my ship is? What is this place? 
RIKER: Captain? You were reported headed for 
PICARD: Just a moment, Number One! 
(But the corridor is empty now) 
RIKER: Can I help you, sir? 
PICARD: No. No, let's help all of us. (goes to comm. panel) General
quarters. Red Alert.

