WESLEY ARGYLE TRAVELLER RIKER KOSINSKI
bridge boy nature elementals chief vessels engineering arrived sense

[Engineering]

(Kosinski sweeps into Engineering as if he owns it,
entourage in tow) 
KOSINSKI: Inform the Bridge I shall begin the first test in precisely
fifteen minutes. Why is that child here? 
(Wesley is at an ancillary station) 
ARGYLE: He's working on a school project. Before you begin, there are
some questions. First, tell us how you arrived 
KOSINSKI: In order to save myself time, let me ask those questions for
you. You received the information which Starfleet provided, you fed it
into your computer as precisely as humanly possible, then you did a
controlled test. And then, to your astonishment, nothing happened. So
you said, what's going on? This doesn't work. Kosinski's a fraud. You
see, I have had this conversation on other Starfleet vessels before.
They didn't understand it. why should you? 
(Meanwhile, the Traveller is interested in what Wesley is doing,
looking over his shoulder) 
ARGYLE: Surely you're not saying it's unexplainable? 
KOSINSKI: I'm saying I'm not a teacher, nor do I wish to become one. I
have neither the inclination nor the time. 
RIKER: You have all the time you need. 
KOSINSKI: I don't think you understand. This has already been approved
by Starfleet Command. 
RIKER: But it hasn't been approved by the Chief Engineer or by me. 
KOSINSKI: I didn't know that was necessary. 
RIKER: Now you do. 
KOSINSKI: Perhaps I should speak to Captain Picard. 
RIKER: If you like. It won't change anything. 
KOSINSKI: How basic shall I be? 
RIKER: I'll leave that to you. 
(They go over to the big multi-station console in the middle of the
room) 
KOSINSKI: Would you get onto the auxiliary panel, please? 
(Wesley gives up his console to the Traveller) 
KOSINSKI: In order to save time, my assistant is going to lay in my
base formulas more rapidly than any human being possibly could,
including even myself. So, here then, in the simplest possible terms,
what I do. Now, this warp drive system was tuned only in the grossest
possible sense, at least according to my standards. What I do is
specific. Thank you. Well, sufficient to say for now, these symbols
(continues under Wesley and Traveller's whispered conversation) 
TRAVELLER: Something troubles you with the way this is configured? How
about it now? 
WESLEY: Yes. But shouldn't these be connected? Here and here. 
TRAVELLER: Now will it do what Kosinski says it will? 
WESLEY: It has a chance. It might work better this way. Yes. 
(The Traveller is impressed with Wesley) 
KOSINSKI: View with me if you will this screen as we consider the
following. Now, is this merely mechanics or is it nature that we deal
with in all of this? And what else than nature are the elementals of
space and time? You are trained in the system. You go in a straight
line, competent, yes, and perhaps even innovative in a minimalist way,
but what I do here is not the end of the process, it is the beginning.
So, what do I do? Go back to the Fearless, which I left with a more
efficient warp drive than I found? Or do you cast off your ignorance
and allow me to continue? 
RIKER: Could anything he's proposing damage our system? 
ARGYLE: How could it? It's meaningless. 
RIKER: Then we should let him try it? 
KOSINSKI: What do you mean, let he him try it? Don't talk about me in
the third person like I'm not standing right here! 
ARGYLE: Yes, we might as well let him try it. 
KOSINSKI: Oh yes, we might as well let him try it. You are too
generous. Boy! Boy, don't play with that.

