RIKER LAFORGE TASHA PICARD TROI TASHA [OC] TARR [on viewscreen] DATA
away owned boys charted holding vessel trouble seek view

[Observation lounge]

(A couple of kids are playing by the Enterprise
tableau) 
RIKER: Matthew! Pola! You know this area is off limits. Come on, come
on. (they scurry out as Picard enters) Boys will be boys, Captain. 
PICARD: Lieutenant, have you launched the probe? 
LAFORGE: Aye, sir. We should getting those readings soon. 
PICARD: Well, if we're not holding the Ferengi and they're not holding
us, who the hell is? 
LAFORGE: The probe will give us some of those answers, sir. 
(Data has found a Chinese finger puzzle that the children have left
behind) 
PICARD: Data, you were going to show us something. 
DATA: As requested, Captain, library computer information on this
planet. It has been charted only from long range scans. It is Class M,
but shows no indications of life forms, sentient or otherwise. However,
you may find this of interest. Resolving it into our language. 
(a holographic display over the table of the Tkon Empire data entry) 
DATA: The centre of a huge space federation, a population of trillions.

PICARD: Trillions? I've never heard the word Tkon before. 
DATA: Understandable. It has been extinct six hundred thousand of our
(his forefingers are stuck in the puzzle) of our years. These
planets were once outposts of that empire. 
PICARD: Data, what are you doing? 
DATA: Apologies, Captain. I seem to have reached an odd functional
impasse. I am stuck. 
PICARD: Then get unstuck and continue with the briefing. 
DATA: Yes, sir. That is what I am trying to do, sir, but the solution
eludes me. 
LAFORGE: My hero. 
(Picard reaches across, pushes his fingers together and removes the
puzzle) 
PICARD: Continue, Commander. 
DATA: Intriguing. It describes the Empire as being highly advanced and
powerful, and capable of actually moving stars. 
RIKER: Stars whose planets are their defence system? 
DATA: Correct, sir. Outposts. The planet below was possibly one of
them. 
TASHA [OC]: Excuse the interruption, Captain, but this may be worth it.
We're now receiving a signal from the probe. 
PICARD: We'll take it here. 
(The display changes to the planet with streams of energy heading out
to both ships) 
LAFORGE: Incredible! 
RIKER: There's our mysterious something, Captain. It is a forcefield of
some kind. 
PICARD: Reaching up from the planet surface. Amazing power. Data, what
does the legend say about the end of the Tkon Empire? 
DATA: Their sun went supernova, sir. 
PICARD: Could this planet have escaped that? 
DATA: This planet may have been the most distant outpost, sir, but it
shows no life form readings. 
PICARD: We should take a look at it, Number One. Stand by with an away
team. 
RIKER: And if the Ferengi also realise the forcefield emanates from the
planet, sir? 
PICARD: That's a complication. Maybe we should ask them to join us in
this. 
LAFORGE: Team up with the Ferengi, sir? 
PICARD: We've been ordered to learn all we can about them. Do you know
a better way? 
LAFORGE: Data. 
(Geordi throws the finger puzzle to him)

Captain's log, supplemental. In orbit of a
mysterious planet, whose unexplained forcefield has seized us with a
power almost beyond imagination. If there is a solution to this, it
almost certainly will involve cooperation from the Ferengi. 
[Bridge] 
TASHA: Ship's power drain is critical, Captain. I
must now shut down our shields to maintain life support systems. 
PICARD: Understood. Open hailing frequencies. 
TASHA: Hailing frequencies open, sir. 
PICARD: Ferengi vessel from Enterprise, come in. 
TARR [on viewscreen]: Your alien images again shock us. 
PICARD: With regard to the surrender, DaiMon Tarr. The facts are
somewhat different. 
TARR [on viewscreen]: Our own probe has already shown us your trickery,
human. We withdraw our surrender. 
PICARD: Agreed. Perhaps you would agree to a more productive
relationship? 
TARR [on viewscreen]: I prefer a more profitable one, human. 
DATA: Yankee trader. 
TARR [on viewscreen]: Explain what means yankee traders? 
LAFORGE: He heard that. 
PICARD: He recognises your interest in profit. Or is that an incorrect
assumption? 
TARR [on viewscreen]: We seek only what is equitable. What do you seek?
Why did you begin by attacking us? 
PICARD: We did not attack you. We gave chase in order to recover a
Federation-owned energy device which 
TARR [on viewscreen]: Which we know is ours. Your barbarous Federation
placed it on one of our planets! 
PICARD: On the contrary, Gamma Tauri Four is recognised by all
civilised members of 
TARR [on viewscreen]: The Ferengi are not uncivilised, human! Are you
suggesting otherwise? 
PICARD: All I'm saying is that you removed something which clearly did
not belong to you. 
TARR [on viewscreen]: Are you now calling us thieves?! 
PICARD: On the contrary, I have no wish to discuss issues of property
or of territory, when our mutual problem remains. Like it or not, we
are both trapped by this energy draining forcefield from the planet. 
TARR [on viewscreen]: On that matter there can be no argument. 
PICARD: I would like to propose a swap. 
TARR [on viewscreen]: And what is a swap? 
PICARD: It's a trade, an exchange. 
TARR [on viewscreen]: Yes, trade, human. What do you offer? 
PICARD: We will tell you what we know about the planet, and in trade,
you will give us your information. 
TARR [on viewscreen]: Ridiculous. How will we know you will not
withhold information? 
PICARD: We must trust each other, Tarr. 
TARR [on viewscreen]: Amusing, human. Trust each other? 
PICARD: I propose that we test this relationship by cooperating in a
joint exploration of the planet surface. 
TARR [on viewscreen]: And what profit is in this, Picard Captain? 
PICARD: The profit, DaiMon Tarr, of saving all our lives. 
TARR [on viewscreen]: We will agree, no doubt foolishly. But you are
warned that any further trickery on your part will be met with no
mercy. 
PICARD: Agreed. If you care to join us, we have a well-proven
transporter device 
TARR [on viewscreen]: We have a matter-energy device of our own. We
will beam a science team of three to whatever
co-ordinates you propose. 
PICARD: Excellent. We will transmit the information shortly. Enterprise
out. 
TASHA: Hailing frequencies off. 
PICARD: I would log that agreement as promising, at least. 
RIKER: I wonder, Captain. I'm not usually one for distrust at first
sight, but this may be an exception. 
DATA: Especially in view of the fact the image he transmitted, sir, was
somehow distorted. 
TROI: I sensed the same thing, Captain. He's hiding something. 
RIKER: With this power drain we can't delay. Now, I'd like some
additional help in case we run into trouble. Can you spare Worf? 
PICARD: Take him. And be careful, Number One.

