RIKER LAFORGE WORF TASHA PICARD TROI DATA
believe hit thank weakness phaser guard stored phasers assessment

[Bridge]

RIKER: In a sudden, abrupt power surge to high warp
speed, Captain, we may be able to break loose from that Ferengi
forcefield. 
PICARD: I wonder what they're thinking over there. 
RIKER: They're wondering what we're going to do next. 
WORF: I say fight, sir. There's nothing shameful in falling before a
superior enemy. 
(La Forge enters) 
PICARD: And nothing shameful in a strategic retreat, either. 
LAFORGE: All systems ready, Captain. And communication now restored to
Engineering. 
PICARD: Excellent, La Forge. Now let's, er, let's throw them off guard.
Lieutenant Yar. Open hailing frequencies. 
TASHA: Hailing frequencies open, sir. 
PICARD: At least we won't begin with weakness. Attention Ferengi
starship! This is Captain Jean-Luc Picard of the USS Enterprise. In the
name of the United Federation of Planets, I demand you return the T9
energy converter you removed from Gamma Tauri Four. Send that in all
language forms. 
TASHA: All language forms, sir. 
PICARD: Sometimes, Riker, the best way to win a fight is not to be
there. 
RIKER: Yes, sir. He will triumph who knows when to fight and when not
to fight. 
PICARD: Glad the Academy's still teaches the strategies of Sun Tzu.
This delay had better prove out, LaForge. 
LAFORGE: Point three hundred milliseconds, sir. 
PICARD: Let's blast full power into warp nine. Ready? 
LAFORGE: On your command, Captain. 
PICARD: On a count of three. Stand by on phasers. One, set warp to
nine. Two, divert shield power to the main engines. Three. 
(Everything vibrates, but they don't leave) 
PICARD: Merde. Shields up. 
DATA: Captain, I think you had better see this. 
PICARD: What's wrong? 
DATA: Someone is reading every file, every bit of information stored in
the Enterprise memory banks. 
LAFORGE: They can do that? 
DATA: And more, perhaps. 
TROI: Captain, if I may recommend? With our attention on the Ferengi
vessel, we have ignored the planet. 
PICARD: Data, consult the charts on this planet. See what we've got on
it. Conference evaluation.

[Observation lounge]

PICARD: So, while we still have some power left, it
is time for difficult decisions. Opinions please. 
TASHA: I say put all available power into a full-out combined phaser
and photon torpedo salvo. Destroy their ability to sustain this
forcefield, sir. 
WORF: Yes! Hit them hard and hit them fast. 
PICARD: Impractical and provocative. Even assuming that we have the
power to sustain such a tactic. 
TASHA: But Captain, isn't firing on us an act of war? 
TROI: The facts are the Ferengis did fire at us, but we were chasing
them. Since then, all they've done is searched our computers, trying to
learn who and what we are. 
PICARD: Your point, Counsellor? 
TROI: Let's talk to them. 
PICARD: It's been tried. No response. 
TROI: But did we tell them anything they wanted to hear? 
PICARD: La Forge? Other opinions? Thank you for your advice. 
(The staff start to leave)
PICARD: Will? I haven't had your assessment. 
RIKER: I believe we've covered every available alternatives, Captain.
Are there other options that you want to analyse? 
PICARD: The only one remaining is the one that needs no conversation.
The only one we must avoid. 
RIKER: Sir? 
PICARD: The one that leads to total annihilation. 
