RIKER WORF TASHA PICARD TARR DATA

[Bridge]

PICARD: Open hailing frequencies. 
DATA: Open, sir. 
PICARD: Attention, Ferengi starship. This is Captain Picard. It is
obvious that we are in a situation here which needs resolving, and we
are willing to do whatever is required, whatever is necessary. I would
like, I would request, that you present your terms to us.

Captain's log, stardate 41386.5. It is with a heavy
heart that I have offered to meet whatever reasonable and
necessary terms are demanded by the Ferengi. I fear for my people and
my vessel in the event the unknown Ferengi ask the unreasonable. How
can I oppose even unreasonable demands?

[Bridge]

RIKER: It's moving, sir. 
WORF: We ask to surrender and now they fire on us? 
TASHA: Ready torpedoes, sir? We have enough power for a few of them. 
PICARD: Ready, but hold on ready. Open hailing frequencies. 
DATA: Hailing frequencies open, sir. 
PICARD: Ferengi vessel, we are awaiting your response. 
TASHA: Suggest first strike, sir. Our shields now only have sixty three
seconds of power left before lowering. 
WORF: If the Ferengi ship's sensors can read us, sir, they will be
waiting until we are most vulnerable. 
RIKER: I'm afraid I agree, Captain. They have not responded. 
PICARD: We'll wait a bit more, Number One. 
TASHA: Fifty seconds. 
PICARD: Patience. Patience. 
TARR [OC]: The quicker we can come to terms, the better, NCC 1701-D. 
PICARD: Who is speaking? 
TARR: I am Tarr. DaiMon of the Ferengi. You wish to discuss surrender,
Captain Picard? 
PICARD: What I said, DaiMon Tarr, is 
TARR [OC]: Unconditional surrender, I warn you, is totally
unacceptable! We will die to the last one of us before such dishonour! 
TASHA: Hailing frequencies closed, sir. 
PICARD: Something has seized their ship too. They're in the same
predicament as us. (to Geordi) Launch a sensor probe. Set it to search
for the source of whatever this something is that is holding both
ships. Go back to hailing
frequency, fast. And I regret, DaiMon Tarr, that I can no longer
negotiate unless it is
conducted visually. 
TARR [OC]: Your complete message not received, Enterprise, but visual
communication is against our custom. 
PICARD: And it is against Starfleet orders to accept a surrender
otherwise. Do you withdraw your surrender? 
TARR [OC]: You give us no choice, Enterprise. May we have a visual on
you as well? 
PICARD: Agreed, DaiMon Tarr. You should be able to view us now. Are we
on your screen? 
(The face of a humanoid with enormous ears fills the viewscreen. He
even has crooked pointed teeth) 
TARR [on viewscreen]: Yes. The ugliness of the human was not an
exaggeration. I do not know how your twisted alien culture has
paralysed our vessel, but I concede your Enterprise is superior. We
will return your worthless T9 device and we offer the life of our
second officers as required
by the Ferengi code. 
DATA: (sotto voce to Geordi) Fortunately, Starfleet has no such rules
involving our second officers. 
TARR: Is this to your satisfaction, Picard Captain? 
PICARD: Your offer may be inadequate, but I will discuss it with my
staff. Stand by for further communications. 
