RIKER LAFORGE WORF TASHA PICARD TARR DATA

[Bridge]

RIKER: It's moving, sir. 
WORF: We ask to surrender and now they fire on us? 
TASHA: Ready torpedoes, sir? We have enough power for a few of them. 
PICARD: Ready, but hold on ready. Open hailing frequencies. 
DATA: Hailing frequencies open, sir. 
PICARD: Ferengi vessel, we are awaiting your response. 
TASHA: Suggest first strike, sir. Our shields now only have sixty three
seconds of power left before lowering. 
WORF: If the Ferengi ship's sensors can read us, sir, they will be
waiting until we are most vulnerable. 
RIKER: I'm afraid I agree, Captain. They have not responded. 
PICARD: We'll wait a bit more, Number One. 
TASHA: Fifty seconds. 
PICARD: Patience. Patience. 
TARR [OC]: The quicker we can come to terms, the better, NCC 1701-D. 
PICARD: Who is speaking? 
TARR: I am Tarr. DaiMon of the Ferengi. You wish to discuss surrender,
Captain Picard? 
PICARD: What I said, DaiMon Tarr, is 
TARR [OC]: Unconditional surrender, I warn you, is totally
unacceptable! We will die to the last one of us before such dishonour! 
TASHA: Hailing frequencies closed, sir. 
PICARD: Something has seized their ship too. They're in the same
predicament as us. (to Geordi) Launch a sensor probe. Set it to search
for the source of whatever this something is that is holding both
ships. Go back to hailing
frequency, fast. And I regret, DaiMon Tarr, that I can no longer
negotiate unless it is
conducted visually. 
TARR [OC]: Your complete message not received, Enterprise, but visual
communication is against our custom. 
PICARD: And it is against Starfleet orders to accept a surrender
otherwise. Do you withdraw your surrender? 
TARR [OC]: You give us no choice, Enterprise. May we have a visual on
you as well? 
PICARD: Agreed, DaiMon Tarr. You should be able to view us now. Are we
on your screen? 
(The face of a humanoid with enormous ears fills the viewscreen. He
even has crooked pointed teeth) 
TARR [on viewscreen]: Yes. The ugliness of the human was not an
exaggeration. I do not know how your twisted alien culture has
paralysed our vessel, but I concede your Enterprise is superior. We
will return your worthless T9 device and we offer the life of our
second officers as required
by the Ferengi code. 
DATA: (sotto voce to Geordi) Fortunately, Starfleet has no such rules
involving our second officers. 
TARR: Is this to your satisfaction, Picard Captain? 
PICARD: Your offer may be inadequate, but I will discuss it with my
staff. Stand by for further communications. 
[Observation lounge]

(A couple of kids are playing by the Enterprise
tableau) 
RIKER: Matthew! Pola! You know this area is off limits. Come on, come
on. (they scurry out as Picard enters) Boys will be boys, Captain. 
PICARD: Lieutenant, have you launched the probe? 
LAFORGE: Aye, sir. We should getting those readings soon. 
PICARD: Well, if we're not holding the Ferengi and they're not holding
us, who the hell is? 
LAFORGE: The probe will give us some of those answers, sir. 
(Data has found a Chinese finger puzzle that the children have left
behind) 
PICARD: Data, you were going to show us something. 
DATA: As requested, Captain, library computer information on this
planet. It has been charted only from long range scans. It is Class M,
but shows no indications of life forms, sentient or otherwise. However,
you may find this of interest. Resolving it into our language. 
(a holographic display over the table of the Tkon Empire data entry) 
DATA: The centre of a huge space federation, a population of trillions.

PICARD: Trillions? I've never heard the word Tkon before. 
DATA: Understandable. It has been extinct six hundred thousand of our
(his forefingers are stuck in the puzzle) of our years. These
planets were once outposts of that empire. 
PICARD: Data, what are you doing? 
DATA: Apologies, Captain. I seem to have reached an odd functional
impasse. I am stuck. 
PICARD: Then get unstuck and continue with the briefing. 
DATA: Yes, sir. That is what I am trying to do, sir, but the solution
eludes me. 
LAFORGE: My hero. 
(Picard reaches across, pushes his fingers together and removes the
puzzle) 
PICARD: Continue, Commander. 
DATA: Intriguing. It describes the Empire as being highly advanced and
powerful, and capable of actually moving stars. 
RIKER: Stars whose planets are their defence system? 
DATA: Correct, sir. Outposts. The planet below was possibly one of
them. 
TASHA [OC]: Excuse the interruption, Captain, but this may be worth it.
We're now receiving a signal from the probe. 
PICARD: We'll take it here. 
(The display changes to the planet with streams of energy heading out
to both ships) 
LAFORGE: Incredible! 
RIKER: There's our mysterious something, Captain. It is a forcefield of
some kind. 
PICARD: Reaching up from the planet surface. Amazing power. Data, what
does the legend say about the end of the Tkon Empire? 
DATA: Their sun went supernova, sir. 
PICARD: Could this planet have escaped that? 
DATA: This planet may have been the most distant outpost, sir, but it
shows no life form readings. 
PICARD: We should take a look at it, Number One. Stand by with an away
team. 
RIKER: And if the Ferengi also realise the forcefield emanates from the
planet, sir? 
PICARD: That's a complication. Maybe we should ask them to join us in
this. 
LAFORGE: Team up with the Ferengi, sir? 
PICARD: We've been ordered to learn all we can about them. Do you know
a better way? 
LAFORGE: Data. 
(Geordi throws the finger puzzle to him)

Captain's log, supplemental. In orbit of a
mysterious planet, whose unexplained forcefield has seized us with a
power almost beyond imagination. If there is a solution to this, it
almost certainly will involve cooperation from the Ferengi. 
