RIKER KAYRON LAFORGE MORDOC TASHA LETEK WORF PORTAL CRUSHER DATA
kayron mind charts fight violent points arrived principle whip

[Planet surface]

(The Ferengi are dodging about like a live 'find
the lady' game) 
TASHA: Hold it right there! Stop. Stop! 
RIKER: Phasers on stun. 
TASHA: Already set. 
(She fires, but the beam is deflected into a crystalline structure) 
TASHA: What's going on? 
(Letek fires his whip, and that whirls around before being sucked into
the crystals. His whip does not coil again) 
LETEK: What is this? 
DATA: I believe we can deduce that these crystalline tree shapes are
actually energy collectors. 
RIKER: Along the same principle as that which is draining energy from
our ships. 
LAFORGE: But the Ferengi weapons were working when we first arrived. 
TASHA: Which means something new has happened. 
LAFORGE: I'm finally beginning to understand what my eyes have been
showing me. It's patterns of force everywhere. This entire planet has
been turned into a power accumulator. 
RIKER: And these? 
LAFORGE: It's the whole point of this place. I can see the planet's
power emanating from. Commander. 
(There's an impressive display of controlled energy, which resolves to
a vague face) 
PORTAL: Be you barbarians? Speak! 
(The Ferengi clutch their heads in pain) 
PORTAL: Who meets the challenge? Who will it be? 
LETEK: (points at Riker) Him. 
PORTAL: You have awakened Portal six three. Do you petition to enter
the Empire? 
RIKER: Who asks the question? 
PORTAL: A guardian of the Tkon Empire. 
(The energy turns into a humanoid figure in a long hooded cloak,
leaning on a staff) 
PORTAL: Biped. Excellent. 
RIKER: Why should we petition to entry to an empire that no longer
exists? 
PORTAL: Why do you attempt deception? The Empire is forever. 
RIKER: Your empire fell prey to a supernova. 
PORTAL: We are forever. 
RIKER: Data, Please repeat the file. 
DATA: It is a matter of record, Portal. In the Age of Makto, the
central star of the Tkon Empire destabilised and 
PORTAL: There has never been an Age of Makto. 
DATA: In fact, there have been many ages which have come and passed
since Makto. 
PORTAL: This is the Age of Bastu! 
DATA: I'm afraid not. According to the Tkon use of galactic motionary
startime charts, after Bastu came Cimi, Xora, Makto 
PORTAL: Enough! Absurdities! 
RIKER: You must have been asleep, Portal, for hundreds of thousands of
our years. 
LETEK: Deception is the way of the human. We Ferengi will gladly make a
petition. 
RIKER: We invite your petition. 
PORTAL: Speak. 
LETEK: We wish to offer our services to serve the Tkon Empire at no
profit. Return control
of our starship to us and we will happily destroy the human criminals
and their vessel which attacked us without provocation. They came to
loot your empire, but we intercepted them. 
PORTAL: You are accused of deceit and treachery. Do you give yourself
up for judgement? 
RIKER: Yes. If you believe those accusations, then you certainly should
act on them. 
LETEK: And there is even more. We can prove that the humans are
destroyers of legal commerce, and that they selfishly withhold vital
technology from backward worlds. 
MORDOC: And necessary defensive weapons, too. We Ferengi now challenge
this human madness. 
RIKER: I admit we withheld modern technology from some worlds. 
KAYRON: You see? They are demented. Their values are insane. You cannot
believe the business opportunities they have destroyed. 
LETEK: Proof of their barbarism. They adorn themselves with gold, a
despicable use of a valuable metal. And they shamelessly clothe their
females. 
MORDOC: Inviting others to unclothe them. The very depth of perversion.

TASHA: Paws off, Ferengi. 
MORDOC: No female, human or Ferengi, can order Mordoc around! Submit! 
TASHA: Just try it, shorty. 
RIKER: At ease, Lieutenant! 
RIKER: And we still have more faults 
DATA: They should add that Starfleet has permitted several
civilisations to fall. We have at times allowed the strong and violent
to overcome the weak. 
LETEK: They admit their crimes! Hear them! They admit the evil that
they do! 
PORTAL: Barbarian! 
LETEK: Yes, you show wisdom. 
PORTAL: Barbarians all! But this one first, in the fashion the Empire
has always challenged savages. 
WORF: No! For battle, come to me! 
RIKER: No! That's an order. 
PORTAL: You have a single chance for life. One only. What is the answer
to my challenge? I offer a thought. He will triumph who knows when to
fight and when not to fight. You are being tested, Riker! What is the
answer? 
RIKER: How do you know my name? 
(Portal whirls his staff, bringing it to a sudden stop by Riker's right
ear. He doesn't flinch) 
PORTAL: Ahhh. You are facing fate with composure. But what is the
answer to my challenge? 
RIKER: Fear is the true enemy, the only enemy. 
(Portal lowers his staff, and becomes friendly and chatty) 
PORTAL: Unlike these little ones who close their minds, your mind holds
interesting thoughts. Know your enemy and know yourself, and you will
always be victorious. Why that thought? And who is this Sun Tzu you
revere? 
RIKER: An old Chinese philosopher from ancient Earth history. 
PORTAL: You must tell me more of this wisdom, so much like our own. 
RIKER: Gladly. But first our starship. Can you release it? 
PORTAL: It is released. All power is restored.

[Bridge]

(The ship whirrs back into life, and people start
to open their eyes) 
CRUSHER: Not a moment too soon, Jean. I mean, Captain.

