RIKER LAFORGE WORF TASHA PICARD TROI WESLEY CRUSHER DATA
blue engine touches old family studied confirms fine minimal

[Observation lounge]

TASHA: One thing is clear. Almost all of the peace
delegates answered our questions with lies. 
DATA: (smoking a meerschaum pipe) Imprecise, Lieutenant. They omitted
certain truths, which in itself tells us something. 
TASHA: We can learn something from non-disclosure? 
DATA: Indubitably, my good woman. 
RIKER: It's something the Captain mentioned. Sherlock Holmes.
Indubitably, Data has been studying him. 
DATA: Has studied, sir. Every case. As Holmes would've pointed out,
during the time in question, something was afoot. 
TASHA: Afoot? 
DATA: While both sets of delegates say they were in their quarters, our
crew locator sensed them passing here and here. 
TASHA: But since it doesn't show where they went, we're still in the
dark. 
DATA: On the contrary, dear colleague. On their return, they drew
medical supplies appropriate to the treatment of minor wounds and
abrasions on these life forms. 
RIKER: Which, leaves us with only one conclusion. 
DATA: Exactly. That they were too engaged in their own affairs to have
disabled our ship and murdered the Engineer. Given a choice, they'd
rather kill each other than any of us. It's elementary, my dear Riker.
Sir.

[Sickbay]

(Crusher is staring at a moving light on a device
in Troi's hand) 
TROI: Beverly, can you hear me? 
CRUSHER: Yes. 
TROI: I want you to go back in your mind to the moment when you first
recall this sensation of memory loss. Picture it exactly as it
occurred. 
CRUSHER: He's lying on the hospital bed sedated. I'm walking up to him.
I. 
TROI: How do you feel at this moment, as you lean over him to take the
specimen? 
CRUSHER: I feel someone else. There's someone else who's there. Not
alone. Get out. Get out of my mind. 
TROI: (to Worf) That's almost exactly what you said. As though there
was something else inside you.

[Observation lounge]

TROI: Which confirms the feeling of duality that I
sensed earlier in both of them. 
PICARD: Why didn't you report it? 
TROI: Because, sir, I assumed at first it was the kind of duality we
Betazeds feel in all of you. Even you, sir. When you approach a
decision and ask yourself which way to go, who are you talking to? 
PICARD: Your hypnotism revealed another form of duality? 
TROI: Yes, sir. I believe something invaded them. 
CRUSHER: It seems the only possible conclusion. 
PICARD: Data, let's proceed without the pipe. 
DATA: Yes, sir. If you wish, sir. But I ask if you'd take it as
incontrovertible that it cannot be a family member or one of our crew? 
PICARD: Yes. Very unlikely. 
DATA: Then our investigation was worthwhile, sir. We have eliminated
both the delegates and the ship's regular complement. 
PICARD: Data, what are you suggesting? 
DATA: I am referring to the great detective's credo, sir. I quote, we
must fall back on the old axiom that when other contingencies fail,
whatever remains, however improbable, must be the truth.

[Bridge]

WESLEY: That engine computer net wasn't repaired,
sir. It just suddenly became all right. 
LAFORGE: Sometimes it's the result that counts, you know. What the? Oh,
no. 
WORF: What is it? 
LAFORGE: Helm control just went down. She won't respond. 
WORF: Bridge to Captain. You're needed here immediately. 
LAFORGE: Wes, alert Engineering from your panel, alright? 
WESLEY: I'm trying. 
PICARD: Report. 
WORF: Helm is down, sir. There's no apparent reason. 
LAFORGE: Captain, we've just dropped to impulse power. 
(Picard leans over and touches the console. Blue energy enters him) 
LAFORGE: Sir, are you all right? I thought I just saw 
PICARD: I'm fine. Everything is fine now. Why the drop to impulse
power, Lieutenant? 
LAFORGE: The helm is suddenly malfunctioning, sir. 
PICARD: Malfunctioning? You're wrong. Look again. 
LAFORGE: Sir, I was just 
RIKER: Mister La Forge? 
LAFORGE: Well, there's nothing wrong with it now, sir. Everything is
just as it should be. 
PICARD: In that case, make our heading nine two five mark three seven. 
LAFORGE: Sir? 
PICARD: You have a problem with that heading, Lieutenant? 
LAFORGE: You want to double back on our course, sir? 
PICARD: Isn't that what I ordered? 
LAFORGE: Yes, sir. 
RIKER: Sir, I'm puzzled about your reversing our course. 
PICARD: That energy cloud, Commander. I believe it important we have
another look at it. 
RIKER: But we're behind schedule for Parliament already. 
PICARD: I believe a very important scientific discovery awaits us on
this heading. 
TROI: Perhaps you'd like to share your reasoning on that, sir? 
DATA: Yes, since we obtained only minimal information on our sensor
pass of it. 
PICARD: Right, Data. We must go back to learn more. Counsellor, do you
believe a ship Captain should explain every order? 
TROI: Of course not, sir.

