RIKER LAFORGE WORF TASHA RIKER [OC] TROI TASHA [OC] PICARD CRUSHER DATA
refuse carried oh mind tests bring judge world blinding

[Bridge]

TASHA: Yar here. 
RIKER [OC]: Security guard to the Engineering deck. 
[Corridor]

RIKER: Selays are playing hide and seek down here,
obviously with the Anticans. It's a lethal game. I want them returned
to their quarters under guard. 
TASHA [OC]: Right away, sir. 
[Ready room]

PICARD: Come. 
(Crusher enters with a data chip) 
PICARD: What do you want? 
CRUSHER: Here are the results from the exams you ordered, sir. You
don't care to inspect them? Please, are you Jean-Luc? 
PICARD: He is here. 
CRUSHER: The Jean-Luc I know? 
PICARD: And more. 
CRUSHER: The more frightens me. 
PICARD: And elates us. We wish you could understand the glorious
adventure ahead. 
CRUSHER: You and? 
PICARD: Soon we'll both be home.

First officer's log, supplemental. On the orders of
Captain Picard, we have returned to the vicinity of the energy pattern
cloud. I am personally convinced that something from this cloud now
shares the Captain's mind. But there seems to be nothing we can do, at
least within regulations. 
[Bridge]

LAFORGE: We're now approaching the cloud, sir. 
RIKER: Very well, Mister La Forge. Bring us to within ten thousand
kilometres and hold us there. 
LAFORGE: Aye, sir. 
(Picard enters) 
RIKER: Shall we begin the scientific tests you wanted, sir? 
PICARD: Oh, they're already underway. I have an announcement for the
entire Bridge. As many of you suspected, when our ship passed through
the edge of this, it accidentally carried away a sentient being. Much
like these energy patterns we're seeing here. A terrifying experience
for any
intelligent being. As if a great claw had reached down and scooped one
of you from your home world. Drawn into the energy circuits of this
vessel, it found its way to you, Worf. Frantic at being carried from
its home world, and recognising you as sentient beings, it pleaded for
help, but in ways you
couldn't understand. Desperately going from person to person, and then
discovering the computer intelligence in this ship's memory circuits.
Oh, simplistic intelligence, but it furnished it enough to slow this
Enterprise thing that had captured it. And it very much regrets the
accidental death of Engineer Singh. 
TROI: Captain, do you exist in combination with this entity? 
RIKER: Is it in control of you, sir? 
PICARD: Very soon after we combined we had learned much about each
other. A passion for exploration, for the unknown. We found we had
similar dreams, and it offered your Captain a way to realise them
beyond human expectations. 
RIKER: Captain, I must speak to you privately now. 
DATA: I understand. As an energy pattern, free of the limitations of
matter, he might travel anywhere, at any velocity. 
RIKER: Captain, do you hear me? 
DATA: Sir, I see no way for you to journey with an energy form. 
PICARD: Isn't there? 
TROI: He's planning to beam himself and the entity into that cloud. 
PICARD: The transporter need not pattern your Captain into matter.
We'll beam energy only, and we will become a combined energy pattern of
our life forms. A resignation from this command and from Starfleet has
been appropriately recorded. 
RIKER: I refuse to allow this, sir. 
PICARD: How does this resignation threaten the ship and its crew in any
way? 
CRUSHER: Captain Picard, you are now relieved from duty. I judge you to
be disabled and mentally incapacitated. 
(Picard sends blue energy into the ship's systems and through all the
Bridge crew) 
RIKER: Security! Red Alert! Restrain the Captain! 
TASHA: Where is he? 
TROI: This is blinding me. 
WORF: Captain! I'll help you if you'll let me. 
(Picard leaves the Bridge as the crew are still transfixed by the blue
energy) 
RIKER: Someone restrain the Captain!

