RIKER WORF PICARD WESLEY SINGH CRUSHER DATA

[Bridge]

WORF: Warp five, four, three, two 
PICARD: State of the art vessel? Data, signal Parliament we'll be
delayed. We will send a new arrival time as soon as it is determined. 
DATA: Sir, subspace radio is out.

[Ready room]

PICARD: All right, gentlemen, your theories on this
sudden vulnerability of these systems.
DATA: If the Enterprise were really this fragile, sir, she never would
have left Spacedock. Therefore, her systems' failures are not endemic
to the ship, but are the result of the actions of an unknown adversary.

RIKER: We have a saboteur aboard. 
DATA: I believe I said that. 
PICARD: Gentlemen. The question is, who? I can't believe it's one of
our people. 
RIKER: Agreed. It must be someone from either alien delegation. Now, if
the Ferengi could have bought or bribed even one of them, that's all
that they'd need. 
DATA: Ferengi contacts have been detected on both Selay and Antica,
sir. 
PICARD: Can any of you suggest any other suspects? 
RIKER: You're sounding like a private eye, sir. 
DATA: Inquiry. Private eye? 
PICARD: A private consulting investigator, Data, who solves crimes. 
DATA: A most interesting occupation. 
PICARD: In the world of fact, probably not. However, in literature,
criminal detection can be a fascinating exercise. The immortal Sherlock
Holmes would have an interesting view of our mystery, I believe. 
RIKER: But I'm afraid we're going to have to find our solution without
history's greatest Consulting Detective.

[Engineering]

(Wesley is at an auxiliary console) 
WESLEY: How about here, Mister Singh? If the control network breaks at
this point 
SINGH: It bleeds warp engine commands off into dead ends. Excellent. I
believe I can handle it from here, Mister Crusher. 
WESLEY: But, sir 
SINGH: You are scheduled for class work now. Sorry. 
WESLEY: Yes, sir. But I don't learn nearly this much in school. 
SINGH: I tend to agree, but the captain's orders on this are very
clear.

[Crusher's quarters]

CRUSHER: Hi. Solve any new problems today? 
WESLEY: I was starting to, maybe. Mister Singh sent me off to class. 
CRUSHER: Wes, you're only an acting ensign. You've got to let the
commissioned officers do some of the work. 
WESLEY: Mom, I've learned a more than they understand. For example, the
Channing's dilithium crystals theory I was telling you about? 
CRUSHER: When were you telling me about that? 
WESLEY: This morning. Don't you remember? 
CRUSHER: Honestly, I don't remember. 
