TROI WORF TASHA PICARD RIKER CRUSHER DATA

[Crusher's office]

WORF: You wanted me, Doctor? 
CRUSHER: Yes, concerning your memory blackout. 
WORF: I still don't remember having one. 
CRUSHER: The same thing happened to me. 
TROI: I want to try hypnosis on both of you. It may restore your memory
as to what happened. 
[Observation lounge]

TASHA: One thing is clear. Almost all of the peace
delegates answered our questions with lies. 
DATA: (smoking a meerschaum pipe) Imprecise, Lieutenant. They omitted
certain truths, which in itself tells us something. 
TASHA: We can learn something from non-disclosure? 
DATA: Indubitably, my good woman. 
RIKER: It's something the Captain mentioned. Sherlock Holmes.
Indubitably, Data has been studying him. 
DATA: Has studied, sir. Every case. As Holmes would've pointed out,
during the time in question, something was afoot. 
TASHA: Afoot? 
DATA: While both sets of delegates say they were in their quarters, our
crew locator sensed them passing here and here. 
TASHA: But since it doesn't show where they went, we're still in the
dark. 
DATA: On the contrary, dear colleague. On their return, they drew
medical supplies appropriate to the treatment of minor wounds and
abrasions on these life forms. 
RIKER: Which, leaves us with only one conclusion. 
DATA: Exactly. That they were too engaged in their own affairs to have
disabled our ship and murdered the Engineer. Given a choice, they'd
rather kill each other than any of us. It's elementary, my dear Riker.
Sir.

[Sickbay]

(Crusher is staring at a moving light on a device
in Troi's hand) 
TROI: Beverly, can you hear me? 
CRUSHER: Yes. 
TROI: I want you to go back in your mind to the moment when you first
recall this sensation of memory loss. Picture it exactly as it
occurred. 
CRUSHER: He's lying on the hospital bed sedated. I'm walking up to him.
I. 
TROI: How do you feel at this moment, as you lean over him to take the
specimen? 
CRUSHER: I feel someone else. There's someone else who's there. Not
alone. Get out. Get out of my mind. 
TROI: (to Worf) That's almost exactly what you said. As though there
was something else inside you.

[Observation lounge]

TROI: Which confirms the feeling of duality that I
sensed earlier in both of them. 
PICARD: Why didn't you report it? 
TROI: Because, sir, I assumed at first it was the kind of duality we
Betazeds feel in all of you. Even you, sir. When you approach a
decision and ask yourself which way to go, who are you talking to? 
PICARD: Your hypnotism revealed another form of duality? 
TROI: Yes, sir. I believe something invaded them. 
CRUSHER: It seems the only possible conclusion. 
PICARD: Data, let's proceed without the pipe. 
DATA: Yes, sir. If you wish, sir. But I ask if you'd take it as
incontrovertible that it cannot be a family member or one of our crew? 
PICARD: Yes. Very unlikely. 
DATA: Then our investigation was worthwhile, sir. We have eliminated
both the delegates and the ship's regular complement. 
PICARD: Data, what are you suggesting? 
DATA: I am referring to the great detective's credo, sir. I quote, we
must fall back on the old axiom that when other contingencies fail,
whatever remains, however improbable, must be the truth.

