ANTICAN RIKER TASHA PICARD CHIEF SINGH DATA

[Bridge]

CHIEF [OC]: Transporter room six to Bridge.
Reporting transporter console malfunction, sir. 
PICARD: Data, this ship is less than a year out of Spacedock. What are
the chances of this occurring? 
DATA: It is a virtual impossibility, sir. 
PICARD: So what the hell is going on here?

[Observation lounge]

PICARD: And you are telling me there are no
explanations for these malfunctions? 
RIKER: At least, sir, all the department heads have reported the damage
repaired. 
PICARD: That was not my question, Number One. What caused the
malfunctions? 
SINGH: I believe it was a rampant electronic short that jumped from
system to system, sir. But the only thing is, er 
PICARD: Yes, Mister Singh? 
SINGH: That shouldn't be possible. The affected systems don't generally
interact with each other. And where they do, it wasn't an interlink
that was malfunctioning. 
PICARD: Have you spoken with Chief Engineer Argyle about this problem? 
SINGH: With all the Engineering staff, sir. They're just as puzzled. 
PICARD: Well, I'm not satisfied. I want an explanation of this by the
time we reach Parliament. 
SINGH: But, sir. 
PICARD: By the time we reach Parliament, Mister Singh.

[Antican quarters]

RIKER: These weapons were taken from two of your
people who were loitering out of sight in the vicinity of the Selay
delegation quarters. Would you care to explain, sir? 
ANTICAN: These are not weapons, First Officer. They are tools. We use
these to dispatch the animals we consume. 
TASHA: Your food supply is not on the same deck as the Selay
delegation, sir. 
RIKER: And you have to admit that these could kill. 
ANTICAN: I admit some of my people are impulsive. and we all have
reason to hate the Selay. 
TASHA: They appear to have the same feelings about you, sir. 
ANTICAN: The nature of politics. 
RIKER: Nevertheless, Chief Delegate, you're on notice that all of your
weapons, no matter what their basic function, are being confiscated.
Violence will not be tolerated on the Enterprise. 
ANTICAN: Of course not. And if any does occur, let me assure you it
will not be we Anticans who start it. 
TASHA: Thank you, sir. 
(Riker and Tasha leave) 
ANTICAN: But we will finish it.

