ANTICAN TROI LAFORGE SELAY PICARD RIKER O'BRIEN CRUSHER DATA
behaving just deck stop agreed oh question mutiny recent

[Corridor]

ANTICAN: I demand to see the Captain. 
O'BRIEN: (as a security guard) Stop! Return to your quarters. 
SELAY: What is that doing on our deck? 
ANTICAN: I demand to know why this starship has changed its course! 
O'BRIEN: Please, return to your quarters, delegates!

[Riker's quarters]

(A model of NCC1701 shuttlecraft is in the corner) 
DATA: A mere change of direction hardly justifies mutiny. 
CRUSHER: Exactly what do you believe you're sensing from him? 
TROI: It's just a feeling that he's, well, that he's closed part of his
mind to me. I just feel that the Captain has become, perhaps dangerous.

RIKER: If he's dangerous. If. 
LAFORGE: Then he'd have to be relieved of command. Which you could do,
Doctor, but it's beaucoup trouble if you're wrong. 
DATA: And at the moment it is all pure speculation. He has done nothing
to subject the Enterprise to danger. 
CRUSHER: I'd need a medical log citing clear evidence of incapacity.
You could do it without that problem. 
RIKER: Only if all command officers agreed it vital to do so. But he
has not been showing any overt unusual behaviour. 
TROI: Ultimately, I believe he will. 
CRUSHER: As second in command, it's still in your corner. I'll order
medical and psychiatric exams. You'll have to back me up somehow.

First Officer's log, supplemental. After meeting
with the senior officers, Doctor Crusher and I decided to approach the
Captain regarding his recent behaviour.

[Ready room]

PICARD: Yes? 
CRUSHER: I'd like you to come to Sickbay for some examinations,
Captain. 
PICARD: Oh? I'll be glad to do when I'm free. 
CRUSHER: I'd like to conduct them now, sir. 
PICARD: Why? What can I do for you, Number One? 
RIKER: Sir, Counsellor Troi has recommended the examinations. 
PICARD: Same question. Why? 
RIKER: It is my duty to inform the Captain we believe he may be under
some kind of alien influence which may constitute a danger to this
ship. 
PICARD: I consider it equally possible that the two of you, and
Counsellor Troi, are overworked, and possibly suffering hallucinations.
Now this is an order. You will arrange medical and psychiatric exams of
both yourself and them. Doctor, are you aware everybody is behaving
strangely? 
CRUSHER: I'm concerned that you've suddenly turned the ship away from
it's course. 
PICARD: What's happened to your mind, Doctor? The search for knowledge
is always our primary mission. I'm sorry, I really am too busy for this
kind of nonsense. Do I have to call Security to force you to report to
the Sickbay? 
CRUSHER: No, sir.

[Corridor]

(Someone uses a florescent green lasso on Riker) 
RIKER: What the hell? 
SELAY: Sorry. Wrong species. 
RIKER: Riker to Security Chief.

