RIKER LIATOR MEDIATOR TASHA PICARD RIVAN MEDIC WESLEY CHIEF [OC] CRUSHER DATA MEDIATOR 2
little star permission sickbay object cluster race ask arithmetic

[Corridor]

CRUSHER: What do you intend to do about my son? 
PICARD: He's being held safely until sundown. 
CRUSHER: When he faces execution! Although he's committed no crime,
certainly none that any sane and reasonable person would 
PICARD: You saw what that thing was about to do. 
CRUSHER: I apologise, sir, but this is very difficult for me. If he
were your son, you'd be as frightened 
PICARD: But I am. 
CRUSHER: Data is in Sickbay here. You'll find him able to talk to you.

[Sickbay]

MEDIC: He's checking out fine, Doctor. 
CRUSHER: Thank you. Finish it later, please. 
DATA: I was an excellent choice for them, Captain. They were able to
communicate with me quite. I was about to say quite easily, but there
was nothing easy about it. Fortunately, they stopped short of
overloading my circuitry. 
PICARD: You're saying they. It is a vessel of some sort. 
DATA: Definitely not a single entity if that's what you mean, sir,
although they know the Edo worship them as a god thing. 
PICARD: They know? 
DATA: They recognise that this is quite expected and harmless at the
present Edo stage of evolution. 
PICARD: What sort of vessel? 
DATA: It is perhaps not what we would understand as a vessel, sir. The
dimensions this one occupies allows them to be, well, to be in several
places at once. But they consider this entire star cluster to be
theirs. It was probably
unwise of us to attempt to place a human colony in this area. Of
course, there are three thousand four other planets in
this star cluster in which we could have colonised. The largest and
closest 
PICARD: Data, don't babble. 
DATA: Babble, sir? I'm not aware that I ever babble, sir. It may be
that from time to time I have considerable information to communicate,
and you may question the way I organise it. 
PICARD: Please, organise it into brief answers to my questions. We have
very little time. Do they accept our presence at this planet? 
DATA: Undecided, sir. 
PICARD: Data, please, feel free to volunteer any important information.

DATA: I volunteer that they are now observing us, sir. 
PICARD: To judge what kind of life forms we are? 
DATA: No, it is more curiosity, sir. I doubt that they expect us to
abide by their value systems. 
PICARD: Do they know of our Prime Directive? 
DATA: They know everything I know, sir. 
PICARD: And, if we were to violate the Prime Directive, how 
CRUSHER: That's not a fair question. 
PICARD: How would they react? 
DATA: It would be a case of judging us by our own rules, sir. If we
violate our own Prime Directive, they might consider us to be deceitful
and untrustworthy. You do recall they cautioned us not to interfere
with their children below. What has happened? 
CRUSHER: The Edo want to execute my son. I will not allow that to
happen, Jean-Luc. 
DATA: Most interesting, sir. The emotion of motherhood, compared to all
others felt by 
CRUSHER: Shut up! 
(Beverly storms out) 
DATA: You were right, sir. I do tend to babble.

Captain's log, stardate 41255.9. Whatever the
object or vessel in orbit with us, it hangs there like a nemesis. It is
one thing to communicate with something mysterious, but it is quite
another to be silently observed by it. I am concerned whether it
understands the same concept of reason that we do?

[Lounge]

DATA: You sent for me, sir? 
PICARD: Let's have more talk, Data. 
DATA: Yes, sir. 
PICARD: Sit down. 
DATA: What level of communication, sir? 
PICARD: Any. My apologies for saying that you babbled. 
DATA: But I do, sir. 
PICARD: You also see things in a way we do not, but as they truly are.
I need help, my friend. I cannot permit that boy or any member of this
vessel be sacrificed. The Prime Directive never intended that. 
DATA: The problem, sir, is there. (the Edo vessel) Although they've
learned of the Prime Directive from my mind, how will they evaluate it?
How do they reason? What are their values? Remember their warning to
us, sir. 
PICARD: Exactly. How do I explain my refusing to obey their laws down
there. Not permitting the Crusher boy to be executed. And by so doing
do I endanger this vessel and more than a thousand other lives? 
DATA: Would you choose one life over one thousand, sir? 
PICARD: I refuse to let arithmetic decide questions like that. Did you
learn anything about the relationship between that and the Edo? Why are
they so certain it's a god? 
DATA: Any sufficiently advanced life form would appear to others to be
that, sir. But when they were probing my thoughts, Captain, I could
feel that whatever they are now, they once existed in this dimension,
just as we do. Perhaps in the same kind of flesh and blood form. Since
then, however, they have evolved considerably. Their present existence
in multi-dimensions no doubt has advantages we do not understand. 
PICARD: Then in some earlier flesh and blood form they might have
shared our kind of values. 
DATA: We know the Edo share them, sir. 
PICARD: Why would such an advanced thing feel obliged to protect the
Edo? 
DATA: Perhaps the Edo are a child race by comparison. Possibly a race
which those life forms have planted here. Much as we plant human
colonies on Class-M planets. 
(Crusher enters) 
CRUSHER: Having fulfilled my professional obligations regarding
Commander Data 
PICARD: You now request permission to beam down to the planet.
Permission granted. You can accompany me while I try and resolve this.
And you should know that whatever the cost, I will not allow them to
execute your son. 
CRUSHER: Thank you, sir. 
PICARD: Data, take command. 
DATA: Aye, sir.

[Council chambers]

RIKER: It's almost time. I want the boy brought
here now. 
(Liator get up) 
TASHA: I'll go along with you. 
LIATOR: Of course. 
(Picard and Crusher beam in. Rivan goes over and kneels, handing back
his communicator) 
RIVAN: Captain Picard. I saw you share the sky with God. You must be
Gods. 
PICARD: No, no, we're not gods. 
(Wesley enters, escorted by the two mediators, Liator and Tasha) 
WESLEY: Mother. I guess you know a lot has happened here. 
CRUSHER: I know. 
WESLEY: Captain Picard, are you going to let them kill me? 
PICARD: No. But I must find some way to prevent it that you understand.

MEDIATOR: How can we let this happen, Liator? They threaten everything
we respect. Our law, our peace, our tranquillity and order. 
MEDIATOR 2: You are powerful, but do not do this to us, we beg you. At
least study what we were without law. Hurtful to each other, savage,
thieving. 
PICARD: I understand. Perhaps your system of law and punishment is
better than any system we once had. But we do now have a law I must
obey. And part of it says I must protect my people from harm. 
LIATOR: We did not ask you to come here. 
RIKER: Which has to do with another law that we must obey. 
PICARD: We are all sworn not to interfere with other lives in the
galaxy. If I save this boy, I break that law. 
MEDIATOR: And you should be executed if you do so! 
PICARD: I may suffer almost as much. Starfleet takes the Prime
Directive very seriously. 
MEDIATOR 2: No, it is God who will punish you. 
PICARD: That thought has crossed our minds. Your god up there may
insist that we obey our non-interference directive. 
WESLEY: Sir, does this mean if you save me the entire crew could die? 
PICARD: You're not involved in this decision, boy. 
WESLEY: I'm sorry, sir, but it seems like I am. 
PICARD: Picard to Transporter room. Lock into this signal. Stand by for
six to beam up. Wesley, Lieutenant. 
(The Starfleet people gather together) 
LIATOR: Our laws have been violated. What of justice? 
TASHA: What of justice to Wesley? Does he deserve to die? 
PICARD: I'm truly sorry, Liator, but I must have justice for my people
too. Transporter room, energise. 
(Nothing happens) 
PICARD: Transporter room, come in. 
CHIEF [OC]: We can't energise the beam, sir. Everything checks out but
we're getting no results. 
MEDIATOR: God has prevented your escape. 
CRUSHER: Then your god is unfair. My son had no warning that his act
was criminal. 
MEDIATOR 2: We cannot allow ignorance of the law to become a defence. 
PICARD: I don't know how to communicate this, or even if it is
possible, but the question of justice has concerned me greatly of
lately. And I say to any creature who may be listening, there can be no
justice so long as laws are absolute. Even life itself is an exercise
in exceptions. 
RIKER: When has justice ever been as simple as a rulebook? 
(The party are beamed up) 
PICARD: It seems the Edo Lord agrees with you, Number One.

