BOY LAFORGE PICARD EDO WESLEY GEORDI OFFICER GIRL DATA

[Bridge]

PICARD: Go ahead, LaForge. What can you make out?

[Lounge]

LAFORGE: This is something I've never seen before,
sir. After complete spectral analysis, well it's as if it's not really
there.

[Bridge]

GEORDI [OC]: I don't understand it. 
DATA: I've got some information on its first transmission, sir. It
translates as stand by. 
OFFICER:: Sir, I see show something coming out of that ship. 
DATA: Verified, sir. Something very small. 
(A little globe of light passes through the shields, and the hull, and
the bulkheads) 
OFFICER: Intruder alert, sir. I don't show a location. 
DATA: The away team signal's been cut off, Captain. We've lost contact
with our people.

OFFICER: Intruder relays do show something. 
PICARD: Why has everything become a something, or a whatever? 
(The globe has arrived on the Bridge, and is face to face with Picard.
When it speaks, everything shakes) 
EDO: State the purpose. (it tones down) State the purpose of what you
have done. 
PICARD: I'm Captain Picard, commanding this Federation starship. 
EDO: State the purpose of your visit here. 
PICARD: We have sent down what we call an away team to make peaceful
contact here. 
EDO: Do you plan to leave life forms here? 
PICARD: No. We are merely visiting here. 
EDO: But you did more at the world you just left. Why have you left
your own life forms there? 
DATA: The colony we just planted, sir. 
PICARD: We found that world uninhabited. The life forms we left there
had, had sought the challenge. At least, that is the basic reason. Had
sought the challenge of creating a new lifestyle, a new society there.
Life on our world is driven to protect itself by seeding itself as
widely as possible. 
EDO: Do not interfere with my children below. 
(The globe goes over to Data) 
DATA: Captain, I do not understand how, but it is asking me if I was
constructed for information exchange. 
PICARD: If there is any way of finding out whatever is out there, Data.

(The globe shrinks and attaches itself to Data's forehead. He falls
backwards onto the floor.)

[Planet surface]

BOY: Watch! I bet you can't do this! 
(He walks along in a hand-stand.) 
WESLEY: Watch this. 
(He does a series of cart wheels) 
GIRL: I want to do something too. With you. 
WESLEY: Er. What? 
GIRL: It's something you can teach me. Will you? 
WESLEY: Er. Well, actually, there are some games I don't quite know yet

GIRL: It's playing ball. Will you teach me? 
WESLEY: Oh, sure! If you have a bat for the ball, I can show you my
favourite. A bat? A stick or branch, about this thick, this long. 
GIRL: We can get it in the gardens. Come on. 
