TROI LAFORGE WORF TASHA PICARD RIKER WESLEY CRUSHER DATA
settling rubicun confirm evaluate days young small sensor tell

[Bridge]

(Wesley is sitting next to Troi) 
PICARD: Riker says the planet's life forms are almost identical to us. 
TROI: He's very enthusiastic. 
(Crusher enters) 
CRUSHER: Captain? Sorry, Troi. 
TROI: The Doctor has something very important to tell you, Captain. 
PICARD: You've been talking about it for days. Shore leave for the
crew. 
CRUSHER: Establishing that colony has been exhausting for the entire
crew, Captain. We're not a supply vessel. Settling all those people has
been a strain on everyone. I'm tired myself. 
(Riker, Data and Yar enter) 
PICARD: Is it as good as your report suggests, Number One? 
RIKER: As per report, sir. Class M, Earth-like, beautiful. It will
startle you. 
CRUSHER: It sounds wonderful for the children. The holodecks are
marvellous, of course, but there's nothing like open spaces and fresh
air. 
TASHA: I've listed my report on their customs and laws, sir. Fairly
simple, common sense things. 
LAFORGE: They're wild in some ways, actually puritanical in others.
Neat as pins, ultra-lawful, and make love at the drop of a hat. 
TASHA: Any hat. 
PICARD: But the happiest report has its negatives. Let's start with
them, Number One. 
RIKER: There are none, sir. Not that any of us can find. 
DATA: But there is a problem here, sir. 
WORF: It's the faulty reading I reported, sir. 
DATA: I'm reading something off the starboard bow, but there is nothing
there. 
TASHA: Sensor technicians are working on it, sir. They've identified it
as a glitch in the system. 
PICARD: I take it you find no glitch at all in this planet, however? 
RIKER: No, sir. 
TASHA: If you approve shore leave, sir, we could start with a small
group. 
PICARD: Of course. Wesley? If we go down, I'd like you to join the away
team to evaluate this world as a place for young people to relax. 
WESLEY: Yes, sir. 
PICARD: If our scans and observations confirm the report, of course
I'll approve it. Let's hope it is not too good to be true.

Captain's log, supplemental. We are in orbit of a
planet designated Rubicun Three, the home of a life form who call
themselves the Edo. Our away team, including Wesley Crusher, has beamed
down to make arrangements concerning some well-deserved recreation.

