TROI RIVAN PICARD MEDIC EDO [OC] CHIEF [OC] CRUSHER DATA
evolution race star permission sickbay away cluster luc speak

[Lounge]

(As soon as Rivan sees the other vessel, she drops
to her knees, head bowed) 
PICARD: I'm sorry, Rivan, but this was necessary. Do you know what that
is? 
TROI: Can you tell us what it is? 
PICARD: Is it God? (she nods) Now, it's very important you answer
something. How do you recognise what it is? 
TROI: Nothing will harm you, I promise. Just tell us how you recognise
it. 
RIVAN: It has appeared before. 
PICARD: Can you speak to it? Does it speak to you? 
TROI: Captain! 
(The vessel becomes even more visible) 
EDO [OC]: Return my child. 
CRUSHER: Return? 
TROI: It's coming toward us. 
PICARD: Picard to Transporter Room, come in. 
(He puts his comm. badge on Rivan) 
TROI: Yes, do that. But hurry! 
CRUSHER: It's still coming toward us. 
CHIEF [OC]: Transporter Chief to Captain. 
PICARD: One to beam down to away team location. Hurry! Engage!
Transporter Room. Urgent! Engage! 
(And Rivan is beamed away. The Edo vessel backs off) 
CRUSHER: It seems the Edo's god is very protective of its children. 
PICARD: I had no choice but to learn about that thing from her. I'm
sorry I had to. She was so frightened. 
TROI: It's understandable, sir. Sharing an orbit with God is no small
experience. 
PICARD: Let's go see your patient, Doctor. 
[Corridor]

CRUSHER: What do you intend to do about my son? 
PICARD: He's being held safely until sundown. 
CRUSHER: When he faces execution! Although he's committed no crime,
certainly none that any sane and reasonable person would 
PICARD: You saw what that thing was about to do. 
CRUSHER: I apologise, sir, but this is very difficult for me. If he
were your son, you'd be as frightened 
PICARD: But I am. 
CRUSHER: Data is in Sickbay here. You'll find him able to talk to you.

[Sickbay]

MEDIC: He's checking out fine, Doctor. 
CRUSHER: Thank you. Finish it later, please. 
DATA: I was an excellent choice for them, Captain. They were able to
communicate with me quite. I was about to say quite easily, but there
was nothing easy about it. Fortunately, they stopped short of
overloading my circuitry. 
PICARD: You're saying they. It is a vessel of some sort. 
DATA: Definitely not a single entity if that's what you mean, sir,
although they know the Edo worship them as a god thing. 
PICARD: They know? 
DATA: They recognise that this is quite expected and harmless at the
present Edo stage of evolution. 
PICARD: What sort of vessel? 
DATA: It is perhaps not what we would understand as a vessel, sir. The
dimensions this one occupies allows them to be, well, to be in several
places at once. But they consider this entire star cluster to be
theirs. It was probably
unwise of us to attempt to place a human colony in this area. Of
course, there are three thousand four other planets in
this star cluster in which we could have colonised. The largest and
closest 
PICARD: Data, don't babble. 
DATA: Babble, sir? I'm not aware that I ever babble, sir. It may be
that from time to time I have considerable information to communicate,
and you may question the way I organise it. 
PICARD: Please, organise it into brief answers to my questions. We have
very little time. Do they accept our presence at this planet? 
DATA: Undecided, sir. 
PICARD: Data, please, feel free to volunteer any important information.

DATA: I volunteer that they are now observing us, sir. 
PICARD: To judge what kind of life forms we are? 
DATA: No, it is more curiosity, sir. I doubt that they expect us to
abide by their value systems. 
PICARD: Do they know of our Prime Directive? 
DATA: They know everything I know, sir. 
PICARD: And, if we were to violate the Prime Directive, how 
CRUSHER: That's not a fair question. 
PICARD: How would they react? 
DATA: It would be a case of judging us by our own rules, sir. If we
violate our own Prime Directive, they might consider us to be deceitful
and untrustworthy. You do recall they cautioned us not to interfere
with their children below. What has happened? 
CRUSHER: The Edo want to execute my son. I will not allow that to
happen, Jean-Luc. 
DATA: Most interesting, sir. The emotion of motherhood, compared to all
others felt by 
CRUSHER: Shut up! 
(Beverly storms out) 
DATA: You were right, sir. I do tend to babble.

Captain's log, stardate 41255.9. Whatever the
object or vessel in orbit with us, it hangs there like a nemesis. It is
one thing to communicate with something mysterious, but it is quite
another to be silently observed by it. I am concerned whether it
understands the same concept of reason that we do?

[Lounge]

DATA: You sent for me, sir? 
PICARD: Let's have more talk, Data. 
DATA: Yes, sir. 
PICARD: Sit down. 
DATA: What level of communication, sir? 
PICARD: Any. My apologies for saying that you babbled. 
DATA: But I do, sir. 
PICARD: You also see things in a way we do not, but as they truly are.
I need help, my friend. I cannot permit that boy or any member of this
vessel be sacrificed. The Prime Directive never intended that. 
DATA: The problem, sir, is there. (the Edo vessel) Although they've
learned of the Prime Directive from my mind, how will they evaluate it?
How do they reason? What are their values? Remember their warning to
us, sir. 
PICARD: Exactly. How do I explain my refusing to obey their laws down
there. Not permitting the Crusher boy to be executed. And by so doing
do I endanger this vessel and more than a thousand other lives? 
DATA: Would you choose one life over one thousand, sir? 
PICARD: I refuse to let arithmetic decide questions like that. Did you
learn anything about the relationship between that and the Edo? Why are
they so certain it's a god? 
DATA: Any sufficiently advanced life form would appear to others to be
that, sir. But when they were probing my thoughts, Captain, I could
feel that whatever they are now, they once existed in this dimension,
just as we do. Perhaps in the same kind of flesh and blood form. Since
then, however, they have evolved considerably. Their present existence
in multi-dimensions no doubt has advantages we do not understand. 
PICARD: Then in some earlier flesh and blood form they might have
shared our kind of values. 
DATA: We know the Edo share them, sir. 
PICARD: Why would such an advanced thing feel obliged to protect the
Edo? 
DATA: Perhaps the Edo are a child race by comparison. Possibly a race
which those life forms have planted here. Much as we plant human
colonies on Class-M planets. 
(Crusher enters) 
CRUSHER: Having fulfilled my professional obligations regarding
Commander Data 
PICARD: You now request permission to beam down to the planet.
Permission granted. You can accompany me while I try and resolve this.
And you should know that whatever the cost, I will not allow them to
execute your son. 
CRUSHER: Thank you, sir. 
PICARD: Data, take command. 
DATA: Aye, sir.

