BOY TROI WOMAN LAFORGE WORF TASHA PICARD RIVAN RIKER EDO WESLEY LIATOR OFFICER GIRL GEORDI [OC] DATA MAN
bat females challenge face wandered let sought playing concerned

[Lounge]

LAFORGE: This is something I've never seen before,
sir. After complete spectral analysis, well it's as if it's not really
there.

[Bridge]

GEORDI [OC]: I don't understand it. 
DATA: I've got some information on its first transmission, sir. It
translates as stand by. 
OFFICER:: Sir, I see show something coming out of that ship. 
DATA: Verified, sir. Something very small. 
(A little globe of light passes through the shields, and the hull, and
the bulkheads) 
OFFICER: Intruder alert, sir. I don't show a location. 
DATA: The away team signal's been cut off, Captain. We've lost contact
with our people.

OFFICER: Intruder relays do show something. 
PICARD: Why has everything become a something, or a whatever? 
(The globe has arrived on the Bridge, and is face to face with Picard.
When it speaks, everything shakes) 
EDO: State the purpose. (it tones down) State the purpose of what you
have done. 
PICARD: I'm Captain Picard, commanding this Federation starship. 
EDO: State the purpose of your visit here. 
PICARD: We have sent down what we call an away team to make peaceful
contact here. 
EDO: Do you plan to leave life forms here? 
PICARD: No. We are merely visiting here. 
EDO: But you did more at the world you just left. Why have you left
your own life forms there? 
DATA: The colony we just planted, sir. 
PICARD: We found that world uninhabited. The life forms we left there
had, had sought the challenge. At least, that is the basic reason. Had
sought the challenge of creating a new lifestyle, a new society there.
Life on our world is driven to protect itself by seeding itself as
widely as possible. 
EDO: Do not interfere with my children below. 
(The globe goes over to Data) 
DATA: Captain, I do not understand how, but it is asking me if I was
constructed for information exchange. 
PICARD: If there is any way of finding out whatever is out there, Data.

(The globe shrinks and attaches itself to Data's forehead. He falls
backwards onto the floor.)

[Planet surface]

BOY: Watch! I bet you can't do this! 
(He walks along in a hand-stand.) 
WESLEY: Watch this. 
(He does a series of cart wheels) 
GIRL: I want to do something too. With you. 
WESLEY: Er. What? 
GIRL: It's something you can teach me. Will you? 
WESLEY: Er. Well, actually, there are some games I don't quite know yet

GIRL: It's playing ball. Will you teach me? 
WESLEY: Oh, sure! If you have a bat for the ball, I can show you my
favourite. A bat? A stick or branch, about this thick, this long. 
GIRL: We can get it in the gardens. Come on. 
[Council Chambers]

MAN: This will please you. Join us. 
RIKER: Thanks. Another time. 
WOMAN: Joy and happiness. 
RIKER: It certainly is. The good life, Worf. 
WORF: I am not concerned with pleasure, Commander. I am a warrior. 
RIKER: Even Klingons need love now and then. 
WORF: For what we consider love, sir, I would need a Klingon woman. 
RIKER: What about plain old basic sex? You must have some need for
that. 
WORF: Of course, but with the females available to me, sir, Earth
females, I must restrain myself too much. They are quite fragile, sir. 
RIKER: Worf, if anyone else had said that, I'd suspect he was bragging.

WORF: Bragging, sir? 
RIKER: I think I'll pass on that. I'd better check in. Enterprise, come
in. Captain, do you read me? Let's. This may be nothing, but let's move
all our people together. 
WORF: Including Wesley, the boy? He's outside. 
TROI: Is there a problem? 
RIKER: We've lost contact with our ship. 
TROI: It's nothing these people have done. I'm certain of that. Their
minds are so open. 
RIKER: Help me locate Wes. He's wandered off. 
(Riker and Troi leave. Worf goes over to Tasha, who is with Rivan and
Liator) 
TASHA: That is extraordinary. 
WORF: Can I take a moment of your time, Lieutenant? 
TASHA: Yes, Worf, but you've got to hear this. Are you telling me that
there's no crime here whatsoever? No one breaks any laws? 
LIATOR: Once they did. Long, long ago there was much disorder. But not
now. 
TASHA: But I seen no sign of police. Those who enforce laws. 
RIVAN: Oh, we have very few. They are called Mediators. And they are
needed only in one place each day. 
LIATOR: The punishment zone. An area that's selected for a period of
time. 
TASHA: It's a completely random selection? 
LIATOR: No one but our Mediators know what place or for how long. We're
very proud of the wisdom of our ancestors. No person ever knows where
or when a zone will be. 
RIVAN: And so no one risks death. 
WORF: Death? 
RIVAN: by breaking any law. 
TASHA: Wait. Explain this. 
LIATOR: Only one punishment for any crime. 
WORF: Anyone who commits any crime in the punishment zone dies? 
LIATOR: The law is the law. Our peace is built on that. 
TASHA: Even a small thing? Such as ignoring the rule, keep off the
grass? 
RIVAN: Then no one breaks that rule. Who wants to risk execution? And
there's always a white wall or fence to remind anyone of a forbidden
area like that. 
TASHA: And just who tells visitors about these rules? 
WORF: We'd better find Wesley.

