TROI LAFORGE PICARD RIKER VOICES KAZAGO DATA

[Bridge]

RIKER: Enterprise now taking possession of
Stargazer, Kazago. 
KAZAGO [on viewscreen]: Permission granted, Riker. 
RIKER: Actually it was quite a bargain, Kazago. I thought the Ferengi
always made a profit on things. 
(Kazago growls and ends the transmission) 
RIKER: Set sub-warp speed for towing, LaForge. 
LAFORGE: Aye, sir. 
(Picard enters, in pain) 
DATA: Starfleet has responded to our request, sir. A tug will
rendezvous with us and tow the Stargazer back to Xendi Starbase Nine. 
PICARD: Very well, Data. 
RIKER: How was it, Captain? 
PICARD: Very strange, Number One. Like going back to the house you grew
up in, but no one's home, except the phantoms of the past. 
TROI: It has troubled you? 
PICARD: Not half as much as this damn headache. Take over, Number One. 
RIKER: Aye, sir. 
(Picard leaves) 
RIKER: What's wrong? 
TROI: I wish I could say.

[Picard's quarters]

(The trunk has been delivered. Picard goes to lie
down on his bed) 
VOICES [OC]: Shields weakening, Captain. Torpedoes armed. Where are
they? Oh my god, sir! Fire! Fire!

[Ready Room]

RIKER: What is it, Data? Why all the mystery? 
DATA: The records of the Stargazer, sir. What the Ferengi call the
Battle of Maxia. It seems the Captain's personal log contains a much
different version of that conflict than the official historic account. 
RIKER: What are you saying? 
DATA: It would appear that the starship which Captain Picard attacked,
had in fact, been under a flag of truce. 
RIKER: What? 
DATA: And apparently, the Captain destroyed the ship without notice or
provocation. 
RIKER: Impossible. What about the fire aboard the Stargazer? 
DATA: An accident in Engineering. 
RIKER: And what proof? 
DATA: It is logged in his own voice, sir. Would you care to hear it,
sir? Sir?

[Picard's quarters]

PICARD [Stargazer log]: This is a confession given
by me, Jean-Luc Picard commanding USS Stargazer. 
PICARD: What does this mean? 
RIKER: I don't know, sir. It sounds like your voice. 
PICARD: It is, Number One. 
RIKER: I refuse to believe you ever said that. 
PICARD [Stargazer log]: I admit I must have mistaken their subspace
antenna for a weapons cluster. Unfortunately, I fired our main phasers
and our direct hit destroyed the unknown vessel. 
RIKER: I've assumed they've simulated your voice somehow. I've already
put Data to work on it. 
PICARD: Thank you, Will. I never made that log entry, of course, but it
still leaves you with a duty to perform. 
RIKER: I know, sir, I must report it to Starfleet. That's at least one
full day for subspace communications to reach there. 
PICARD: And one more full day for their answer to return. I'd like the
truth on this by then. I'd hate to have to prepare a formal defence. 
RIKER: I can't believe they'd ask for your command. 
PICARD: Why wouldn't they? With the Ferengi making these friendship
overtures, I could become a severe
embarrassment to Starfleet. 
RIKER: I'm certain the Ferengi are behind the faked log. No wonder
they're waiting out there. Headache back, sir? 
PICARD: Damn! I'll call the Doctor again. 
RIKER: It's no wonder, with all this going on. Try to relax. 
(Riker leaves) 
PICARD [Stargazer log] This is a confession given by me, Jean-Luc
Picard, commanding USS Stargazer, in the hopes that my belated honesty
will be taken into account by Starfleet when judging my actions during
a confrontation with an unidentified vessel. 
