RIKER LAFORGE WORF TASHA PICARD TROI CRUSHER DATA
right textbooks dreamed cells failing crater feel arc bow

[Observation lounge]

(All the senior staff are seated around the long
table) 
PICARD: We were traveling at warp two through the Maxia Zeta star
system when this unidentified starship suddenly appeared and fired on
us, point-blank range. 
RIKER: Where did it come from? 
PICARD: It must have been lying in some deep moon crater. First attack
damaged the shields. In the confusion, they hit us a second time. 
TASHA: No clue who they were? 
PICARD: No names, no reason. Can you identify them, Vigo? If they come
in a second time with our shields damaged 
TROI: Sir? Who's Vigo? 
PICARD: He's my weapons officer on the Stargazer. I'm getting quite
caught up in this. 
RIKER: Your shields were failing, sir. 
PICARD: I improvised. With the enemy vessel coming in for the kill, I
ordered a sensor bearing, and when it went into the return arc 
DATA: You performed what Starfleet textbooks now refer to as the Picard
Manoeuvre.
PICARD: Well, I did what any good helmsman would have done. I dropped
into high warp, stopped right off the enemy vessel's bow and fired with
everything I had. 
RIKER: And blowing into maximum warp speed, you appeared for an instant
to be in two places at once. 
PICARD: And our attacker fired on the wrong one. 
RIKER: I did what any good helmsman could have done. You did it first,
sir. 
PICARD: It was a save our skins manoeuvre. We were finished. On fire.
We had to abandon ship. We limped through space in shuttlecraft for
weeks before we were picked up. I haven't thought about this for years.

DATA: Sir, the Ferengi are standing by for us to take possession of the
Stargazer. 
PICARD: I want to go over to her. 
RIKER: I understand, sir. As soon as my people have made certain she's
safe. 
CRUSHER: And after I have another look at you, Captain.

[Stargazer Bridge]

(Tasha and Data are exploring by torchlight) 
DATA: (reading the plaque) USS Stargazer. Constellation Class.
Starfleet Registry NCC 2893. 
(lights come on and Geordi enters) 
LAFORGE: I activated the emergency power cells. Amazing they still
work. 
WORF: The rest of the ship is clear of surprises, Lieutenant Yar. 
LAFORGE: I read about this ship at the Academy, I never dreamed I'd
ever be on her. 
TASHA: Yar to Enterprise. All clear, sir.
(Picard and Crusher beam in) 
PICARD: Hello, old friend. 
DATA: You'll find this most intriguing, sir. 
PICARD: What did you find, Data? 
DATA: The last entry dated nine years ago, sir. By you. (reading
screen) We are forced to abandon our starship. May she find her way
without us. Apparently she did, sir. 
CRUSHER: How do you feel, Captain? 
PICARD: Oh, I'm fine, Doctor. Lieutenant Yar, run a structural analysis
on the Stargazer for an impulse tow. Data, download all computers to
the Enterprise and file. I'm going to look at my old cabin.

