RIKER LAFORGE WORF TASHA PICARD TROI BOK COMPUTER KAZAGO CRUSHER DATA

[Bridge]

CRUSHER: The captain, Commander? 
RIKER: Resting in his quarters after ordering both of you to your duty
stations. 
TROI: There have been some, did he say low intensity? Some unusual low
intensity transmissions from the Ferengi vessel. 
RIKER: Did who say? 
CRUSHER: My son. Transmissions which exactly match certain anomalies
found in the Captain's brain scans. Something over there is affecting
the Captain's thought patterns. 
RIKER: Computer, give me a location on Captain Picard. 
COMPUTER: Captain Picard is in Transporter room three. 
RIKER: What? Computer, emergency order to Transporter room three. 
COMPUTER: New information. Captain Picard is no longer aboard the
Enterprise.

[Stargazer Bridge]

(Picard beams in and takes the Captain's chair) 
BOK: Welcome back, Captain. 
(Bok is holding the device he has been using on Picard) 
PICARD: What is happening? 
BOK: Shields up, computer. 
PICARD: What are you doing? 
BOK: Collecting on an old debt. 
(Picard collapses in agony) 
[Bridge]

RIKER: Stargazer, Captain, respond! 
TASHA: Shields up, sir. No way to beam over any help. 
LAFORGE: Commander, I'm reading something very strange here. A low
intensity beam of intermittent pulse inside this starship. 
DATA: I have a fix on it, sir. Inside Captain Picard's quarters. 
TASHA: You transferred some of his belongings from the Stargazer? 
WORF: Yes. Including a fairly heavy chest. 
RIKER: Go take a look, fast! 
LAFORGE: Commander, Stargazer is now powering up, sir.

[Stargazer Bridge]

BOK: I have been waiting a long nine years for
this, Picard. 
PICARD: I don't know what you're talking about. 
BOK: Do you not, human? Can you not remember the crime you committed
against my very blood? You murdered my only son. 
PICARD: Your son? 
BOK: He was the commander of the ship you destroyed! On his first
voyage as DaiMon. 
PICARD: The ship? The Ferengi ship that attacked me. Or is it about to
attack me? 
BOK: And I have spent these years searching, seeking a proper blood
revenge! And I found it! I am rich, Picard, yet two of these cost me
the profits of an entire life. You are back in command of the
Stargazer, Picard. Its computers will answer your orders. Die well,
Captain. 
(Bok beams away)

First officer's log. Captain Picard has beamed
himself to the Stargazer, which is now moving away from us under its
own power.

[Bridge]

RIKER: Enterprise to Stargazer, please respond.
Enterprise to Captain Picard aboard Stargazer. Please answer. Mister
Data, what was Stargazer's condition? 
DATA: Considerable fire damage to interior surface reported, sir. But
none of her main systems were crippled. 
RIKER: Armaments, Lieutenant Yar? 
TASHA: Six photon torpedoes short, sir, probably used when the Captain
destroyed his Ferengi attackers nine years ago. Otherwise fully armed. 
(Geordi is examining the globe device from the chest) 
RIKER: What do you make of it, La Forge? 
LAFORGE: It seems to be a network of miniature circuitry, sir.
Incredibly complex. Maybe an amplifier. 
RIKER: Where was it in the Captain's quarters, Mister Worf? 
WORF: His chest from the Stargazer, sir? Just where I had left it. He
hadn't yet unpacked. 
CRUSHER: So, he may not have even known it was there. And if this is
able to pick up or magnify thought-altering transmissions 
TROI: It could have prepared him for whatever is happening now. 
RIKER: Let's find out, or try to. Contact the Ferengi vessel,
Lieutenant. 
TASHA: Hailing frequencies open, sir. 
RIKER: Enterprise to Ferengi vessel, we transmit visually. Do you
respond? 
KAZAGO [on viewscreen]: Why is our gift to you under power, human? 
RIKER: I will discuss that with your captain. 
KAZAGO [on viewscreen]: He is working in our ship's laboratory. Where
is your Captain? 
RIKER: He's beamed himself aboard the Stargazer, and I'm wondering if
this has something to do with it. 
KAZAGO [on viewscreen]: How do you have possession of that? 
RIKER: It was found in our Captain's chest, which brought over from the
Stargazer. 
KAZAGO [on viewscreen]: It is a forbidden device. A thought maker. If
your Captain is criminal enough to own one 
RIKER: Kazago, you know who controls those spheres. Now I ask you
again, First Officer to First Officer. What's going on? 
KAZAGO [on viewscreen]: It is not seemly to question one's own DaiMon,
Riker. I am not prepared to do that. 
TASHA: Sir, I have the Stargazer. 
RIKER: Switch, now! Enterprise to Picard. 
PICARD [on viewscreen]: Do not attack again! We are on a peaceful
mission. Give your identity. You force us to defend ourselves. Phasers
full up. Arm torpedoes. Why aren't the shields at full power? 
TASHA: We've lost him, sir. 
LAFORGE: When he put up the shields, sir.

