TROI LAFORGE WORF TASHA PICARD RIKER COMPUTER WESLEY BOK CRUSHER DATA
enters adults emergency studying away chest command agony thoughts

[Sickbay]

(The output from the forehead devices is on a wall
display) 
CRUSHER: Obviously, there's some thought process disorder, but I can't
find a physical reason for it. Anything?
TROI: I'm puzzled too. I keep sensing random thoughts but two sets of
them. As if they were his, but intermixed other thoughts which are also
his. 
(Wesley enters) 
CRUSHER: I'm busy at the moment, Wesley. 
WESLEY: I know, Mom, but this is important. When I went back to the
main sensors in Engineering to try some more sensitivity experiments 
TROI: Does this have something to do with Captain Picard? 
WESLEY: Yes, ma'am, if this is what you're talking about here. I don't
know much about brain scans but I glanced at these when you were
studying them, and I noticed that these patterns are the same as those
picked up from the low-intensity transmissions from the Ferengi ship. I
went back and checked, and they're exactly the same. 
TROI: What kind of transmissions? 
WESLEY: I don't know. Engineering has nothing like it on record. 
TROI: Let's get to the Captain. 
CRUSHER: No, they might be affecting the Captain. To Riker. 
(Crusher and Troi leave) 
WESLEY: You're welcome, ladies. Adults.

[Bridge]

CRUSHER: The captain, Commander? 
RIKER: Resting in his quarters after ordering both of you to your duty
stations. 
TROI: There have been some, did he say low intensity? Some unusual low
intensity transmissions from the Ferengi vessel. 
RIKER: Did who say? 
CRUSHER: My son. Transmissions which exactly match certain anomalies
found in the Captain's brain scans. Something over there is affecting
the Captain's thought patterns. 
RIKER: Computer, give me a location on Captain Picard. 
COMPUTER: Captain Picard is in Transporter room three. 
RIKER: What? Computer, emergency order to Transporter room three. 
COMPUTER: New information. Captain Picard is no longer aboard the
Enterprise.

[Stargazer Bridge]

(Picard beams in and takes the Captain's chair) 
BOK: Welcome back, Captain. 
(Bok is holding the device he has been using on Picard) 
PICARD: What is happening? 
BOK: Shields up, computer. 
PICARD: What are you doing? 
BOK: Collecting on an old debt. 
(Picard collapses in agony) 
[Bridge]

RIKER: Stargazer, Captain, respond! 
TASHA: Shields up, sir. No way to beam over any help. 
LAFORGE: Commander, I'm reading something very strange here. A low
intensity beam of intermittent pulse inside this starship. 
DATA: I have a fix on it, sir. Inside Captain Picard's quarters. 
TASHA: You transferred some of his belongings from the Stargazer? 
WORF: Yes. Including a fairly heavy chest. 
RIKER: Go take a look, fast! 
LAFORGE: Commander, Stargazer is now powering up, sir.

[Stargazer Bridge]

BOK: I have been waiting a long nine years for
this, Picard. 
PICARD: I don't know what you're talking about. 
BOK: Do you not, human? Can you not remember the crime you committed
against my very blood? You murdered my only son. 
PICARD: Your son? 
BOK: He was the commander of the ship you destroyed! On his first
voyage as DaiMon. 
PICARD: The ship? The Ferengi ship that attacked me. Or is it about to
attack me? 
BOK: And I have spent these years searching, seeking a proper blood
revenge! And I found it! I am rich, Picard, yet two of these cost me
the profits of an entire life. You are back in command of the
Stargazer, Picard. Its computers will answer your orders. Die well,
Captain. 
(Bok beams away)

First officer's log. Captain Picard has beamed
himself to the Stargazer, which is now moving away from us under its
own power.

