PICARD RIKER DATA LAFORGE KAZAGO

[Ready Room]

RIKER: What is it, Data? Why all the mystery? 
DATA: The records of the Stargazer, sir. What the Ferengi call the
Battle of Maxia. It seems the Captain's personal log contains a much
different version of that conflict than the official historic account. 
RIKER: What are you saying? 
DATA: It would appear that the starship which Captain Picard attacked,
had in fact, been under a flag of truce. 
RIKER: What? 
DATA: And apparently, the Captain destroyed the ship without notice or
provocation. 
RIKER: Impossible. What about the fire aboard the Stargazer? 
DATA: An accident in Engineering. 
RIKER: And what proof? 
DATA: It is logged in his own voice, sir. Would you care to hear it,
sir? Sir?

[Picard's quarters]

PICARD [Stargazer log]: This is a confession given
by me, Jean-Luc Picard commanding USS Stargazer. 
PICARD: What does this mean? 
RIKER: I don't know, sir. It sounds like your voice. 
PICARD: It is, Number One. 
RIKER: I refuse to believe you ever said that. 
PICARD [Stargazer log]: I admit I must have mistaken their subspace
antenna for a weapons cluster. Unfortunately, I fired our main phasers
and our direct hit destroyed the unknown vessel. 
RIKER: I've assumed they've simulated your voice somehow. I've already
put Data to work on it. 
PICARD: Thank you, Will. I never made that log entry, of course, but it
still leaves you with a duty to perform. 
RIKER: I know, sir, I must report it to Starfleet. That's at least one
full day for subspace communications to reach there. 
PICARD: And one more full day for their answer to return. I'd like the
truth on this by then. I'd hate to have to prepare a formal defence. 
RIKER: I can't believe they'd ask for your command. 
PICARD: Why wouldn't they? With the Ferengi making these friendship
overtures, I could become a severe
embarrassment to Starfleet. 
RIKER: I'm certain the Ferengi are behind the faked log. No wonder
they're waiting out there. Headache back, sir? 
PICARD: Damn! I'll call the Doctor again. 
RIKER: It's no wonder, with all this going on. Try to relax. 
(Riker leaves) 
PICARD [Stargazer log] This is a confession given by me, Jean-Luc
Picard, commanding USS Stargazer, in the hopes that my belated honesty
will be taken into account by Starfleet when judging my actions during
a confrontation with an unidentified vessel. 
[Bridge]

RIKER: Open hailing frequencies, Geordi. 
LAFORGE: Open, sir. 
RIKER: I'll take it in the Ready room. Secure channel, La Forge. 
LAFORGE: Secure, Sir.

[Ready room]

RIKER: Starship Ferengi, this is Commander Riker
here. I'd like to speak to First Officer Kazago. 
KAZAGO [OC]: A problem, Riker? 
RIKER: Are our channels secure on your end? 
KAZAGO [on monitor]: It is now. 
RIKER: Are you aware of the details of the Battle of Maxia? 
KAZAGO [on monitor]: Captain Bok has just made me aware of it, Riker.
The infamy of your Picard is now fully known. 
RIKER: Infamy? 
KAZAGO [on monitor]: I would call the wanton destruction of an unarmed
vessel infamy. 
RIKER: And if I produced evidence that Captain Picard's log entry was
falsified to indicate that? 
KAZAGO [on monitor]: I can hardly imagine you contacted me to discuss
an ancient battle. What do you want of me? 
RIKER: Just one question. 
KAZAGO [on monitor]: As you humans say, I'm all ears. 
RIKER: First Officer to First Officer, Kazago, if your Captain Bok knew
about this, then why this peaceful meeting to present us with the
Stargazer? 
KAZAGO [on monitor]: We freely give you back your derelict warship and
now you accuse us of crime, Riker? I can bear no more insults!

