TROI TASHA PICARD RIKER CRUSHER DATA
blowing nature caught wrong nightmare ready jean smell ll

[Sickbay]

(This time, Picard is on a full bio-bed) 
CRUSHER: Like before? 
PICARD: No. It hit with more impact. 
TROI: Hit? I'm sorry, but anything could be important. 
CRUSHER: You said you felt something yourself. 
TROI: I believe so. Like a thought, but rather mechanical in nature. 
PICARD: Are you sure it wasn't one of my thoughts? At that moment, I
was remembering being at the helm of the Stargazer. A manoeuvre was
being made. We were hit. Something's burning. I can smell smoke. Can
you smell it? 
CRUSHER: There's nothing burning, Jean-Luc. 
PICARD: That was just part of my memory. 
TROI: Memory or nightmare? 
(Riker enters) 
PICARD: Well, it was strong, whatever it was. Are you ready, Number
One. 
RIKER: Staff's waiting, if Doctor Crusher approves. 
CRUSHER: I'll do better than that. I'll go along.

[Observation lounge]

(All the senior staff are seated around the long
table) 
PICARD: We were traveling at warp two through the Maxia Zeta star
system when this unidentified starship suddenly appeared and fired on
us, point-blank range. 
RIKER: Where did it come from? 
PICARD: It must have been lying in some deep moon crater. First attack
damaged the shields. In the confusion, they hit us a second time. 
TASHA: No clue who they were? 
PICARD: No names, no reason. Can you identify them, Vigo? If they come
in a second time with our shields damaged 
TROI: Sir? Who's Vigo? 
PICARD: He's my weapons officer on the Stargazer. I'm getting quite
caught up in this. 
RIKER: Your shields were failing, sir. 
PICARD: I improvised. With the enemy vessel coming in for the kill, I
ordered a sensor bearing, and when it went into the return arc 
DATA: You performed what Starfleet textbooks now refer to as the Picard
Manoeuvre.
PICARD: Well, I did what any good helmsman would have done. I dropped
into high warp, stopped right off the enemy vessel's bow and fired with
everything I had. 
RIKER: And blowing into maximum warp speed, you appeared for an instant
to be in two places at once. 
PICARD: And our attacker fired on the wrong one. 
RIKER: I did what any good helmsman could have done. You did it first,
sir. 
PICARD: It was a save our skins manoeuvre. We were finished. On fire.
We had to abandon ship. We limped through space in shuttlecraft for
weeks before we were picked up. I haven't thought about this for years.

DATA: Sir, the Ferengi are standing by for us to take possession of the
Stargazer. 
PICARD: I want to go over to her. 
RIKER: I understand, sir. As soon as my people have made certain she's
safe. 
CRUSHER: And after I have another look at you, Captain.

