RIKER LAFORGE WORF TASHA PICARD Q WESLEY DATA

[Planet surface]

(Riker is sitting on a rock, laughing) 
Q: Something amuses you? Perhaps you'll share the joke with me? 
RIKER: The joke is you. 
Q: Strange gratitude, from one who has been granted a gift beyond any
human dream. How can you not appreciate being able to send your friends
back to their ship, or sending the soldiers back to the nothingness
from which they came?
Certainly, you must understand that at this moment you can send
yourself back to the ship or to Earth, or change your shape and become
anything else you want to be. 
RIKER: What do you need, Q? 
Q: Need? 
RIKER: You want something from us, desperately. What is it? 
Q: Want something from you foolish, fragile, non-entities? Oh come,
Riker. You're beginning to sound like your Captain. 
RIKER: Now that's a compliment, Q. But that's not an answer. 
Q: Riker, we have offered you a gift beyond all other gifts! 
RIKER: Out of the goodness of your heart. 
Q: After Farpoint, I returned to where we exist. The Q Continuum. 
RIKER: Which means exactly what? 
Q: The limitless dimensions of the galaxy in which we exist. 
RIKER: I don't understand. 
Q: Of course you don't, and you never will until you become one of us. 
RIKER: Until? Would you mind going over that again? 
Q: Well if you'll stop interrupting me. This is hardly a time to be
teaching you the true nature of the universe. However, at Farpoint we
saw you as savages only. We discovered instead that you are unusual
creatures in your own limited ways. Ways which in time will not be so
limited. 
RIKER: We're growing. Something about us compels us to learn, explore. 
Q: Yes, the human compulsion. And unfortunately for us, it is a power
which will grow stronger century after century, aeon after aeon. 
RIKER: Aeons. Have you any idea how far we'll advance? 
Q: Perhaps in a future that you cannot yet conceive, even beyond us. So
you see, we must know more about this human condition. That's why we've
selected you, Riker, to become part of the Q, so that you can bring to
us this human need and hunger, that we may understand it. 
RIKER: I suppose you mean that as a compliment, Q. Or maybe it's my
limited mind. But to become a part of you? I don't even like you. 
Q: You're going to miss me! 
(Q vanishes and the Bridge crew appear) 
LAFORGE: Come on, not again! 
WESLEY: Commander Riker, what's going on? I was sitting in school and 
TASHA: Worf, my phaser's gone. Are you armed? 
WORF: No. 
(The animal solders advance) 
PICARD: Where is Q? If you have any answer to any of this? 
(Worf charges to meet their enemy. He knocks two down before being
bayoneted in the stomach) 
WESLEY: Worf! 
(He dashes to Worf) 
RIKER: Look out! 
PICARD: Wesley, no! 
(Wesley gets bayoneted from behind. I confess, I cheered) 
RIKER: Wesley! 
PICARD: Wesley! 
RIKER: No! Damn it! Damn it to hell! 
(Riker throws up a Q forcefield in front of the soldiers) 
PICARD: Riker. You! You did that! 
RIKER: And that's not all!

[Bridge]

(They are all back on the Bridge, alive and well,
including Wesley - sob) 
PICARD: That grid, their wounds. Only the Q can do that. 

Captain's log, stardate 41591.4. Twelve minutes out
from Quadra Sigma Three where the survivors of an underground disaster
desperately need our help. Aboard the Enterprise, First Officer William
T. Riker needs help nearly as badly. But this is a subject far out of
my experience. Out of any human's experience.

[Ready Room]

PICARD: Will. How the hell do I advise you? You
know the implications as well as I. 
RIKER: No one has ever offered to turn me into a god before. 
PICARD: What the Q has offered you has got to be close to immortality,
Will. They're not lying about controlling space and time. We've seen it
in what they can do. 
RIKER: You've also seen it in what I can do. 
PICARD: If you are going to refuse his offer, you must not allow
yourself to use this power again. It's too great a temptation for us at
our present stage of development. 
RIKER: Are you worried that I won't be able to say no to it? 
PICARD: You tell me. Are you strong enough to refuse to use that power.

RIKER: Certainly. 
PICARD: No matter how tempted? No matter how difficult Q makes it for
you? 
RIKER: You have my word. 
PICARD: Good. I know what your word means. 
DATA [OC]: In orbit of Quadra Sigma Three, sir. Ready to beam down
rescue team to underground emergency area.

