RIKER LAFORGE WORF TASHA PICARD Q COMPUTER DATA

[Planet surface]

TASHA: Sir! Over here. 
(It's Q, in a French uniform complete with tricorn hat and tricolor
cockade) 
Q: Join me, Riker. A good game needs rules and planning. Wasn't it your
own Hartley who said, nothing reveals humanity so well as the games it
plays? Almost right. Actually, you reveal yourselves best in how you
play. 
DATA: Sir, what he has in mind might provide us with vital information.

(Riker joins Q at a table in front of a tent. He picks up a glass to
drink) 
RIKER: Incredible. I was just thinking about an old-fashioned lemonade.

Q: And so it became that. An excellent thirst quencher. It gets rather
hot out on this plain. 
RIKER: What about my people? 
Q: Whatever they'd like, of course! 
(Glasses appear in everyone's hands. Worf ostentatiously pours his onto
the ground) 
Q: Drink not with thine enemy. The rigid Klingon code. That explains
something of why you defeated them. 
RIKER: You're still fascinated with the human past? Perhaps you're not
that original. 
Q: Au contraire! It's the human future which intrigues us, and should
concern you most. You see, of all species, yours cannot abide
stagnation. Change is at the heart of what you are. But change into
what? That's the question. 
DATA: That is what humans call a truism. 
Q: You mean hardly original? 
RIKER: You're the one who said it. While we're at it, this isn't part
of any human future. 
Q: True. I borrowed this from your stodgy Captain's mind. This is
dressing for a game that we will play. Now games require rules and
rewards and
dangers and familiar settings. That sort of thing. 
RIKER: This isn't that familiar to me. Data? 
DATA: This is from Europe's Napoleonic era, sir. Late eighteenth, early
nineteenth centuries. This is a campaign headquarters tent, his uniform
is that of a French Army marshal. 
RIKER: And a marshal outranks even an Admiral 
Q: Well, do you think I would go from a Starfleet Admiral to anything
else? 
RIKER: Of course you wouldn't. But Napoleonic equipment on an alien
planet. One so different it has twin moons? 
Q: Well, as you said, I'm nothing if not imaginative. And the game
should reflect that. Shall it be a test of strength? Meaningless, since
you have none. A test of intelligence, then? Equally as meaningless.
But it needs risk, something to win and something to lose. 
RIKER: If we must play a game, what would we win? 
Q: The greatest possible future that you can imagine. Which, of course,
requires something totally disastrous if you lose. Now the point of
this game shall be, can any of you can stay alive? 
WORF: If your game is fair, we will. 
Q: Oh, for shame, Worf. Fairness is such a human concept. Think
imaginatively! This game shall in fact be completely unfair. 
TASHA: You've gone too far! 
Q: Game penalty! 
(Tasha vanishes) 
RIKER: Where is she, Q? You can forget your game if 
Q: To use a twentieth century term, she's in a penalty box. Where she
will remain unharmed unless one of you merits a penalty. Unfortunately,
there is only one penalty box. If any of you should be sent there, dear
Tasha must give the box up to you. 
LAFORGE: And where does she go? 
Q: Into nothingness. I entreat you to carefully obey the rules of the
game. The only one who can destroy your Tasha now is you.

[Bridge]

PICARD: Captain's log 
COMPUTER: Captain's log 
PICARD: Damn it. I can't even make a log entry. 
TASHA: I wish I could help you, Captain.
PICARD: Where is everyone else? 
TASHA: Down on some planet. 
PICARD: Some planet? What are you doing here? 
TASHA: Well, I, er. It sounds strange, but I'm in a penalty box. 
PICARD: A penalty box? 
TASHA: Q's penalty box. It sounds strange, but it definitely isn't. I
know that one more penalty by anyone and I'm gone. 
PICARD: Gone? 
TASHA: Yes! I am gone! It is so frustrating to be controlled like this!

PICARD: Lieutenant. Tasha, it's all right. 
TASHA: What the hell am I doing? Crying? 
PICARD: Don't worry. There's a new ship's standing order on the Bridge.
When one is in the penalty box, tears are permitted. 
TASHA: Captain. Oh, if you weren't a captain. 
Q: Consorting with lower rank females, Captain? Especially ones in
penalty boxes? Destructive to discipline, they say. But then again,
you're what? You're only human? Penalty over. 
PICARD: A marshal of France? Ridiculous! 
Q: One takes what jobs he can get. For example, star log entry,
stardate today. This is Q, speaking for Captain Jean-Luc Picard, who we
consider too bound by Starfleet customs and traditions to be useful to
us. The Enterprise is now helpless, stuck like an Earth insect in amber
while its bridge crew plays out a game whose real intent is to test
whether the First Officer is worthy of the greatest gift the Q can
offer. 
PICARD: So you're taking on Riker this time. Excellent. He'll defeat
you just as I did. 
Q: Shall we wager on that, Captain? Your starship command against? 
PICARD: Against your keeping out of humanity's path for ever. Done? 
Q: Done! You've already lost, Picard. Riker will be offered something
impossible to refuse.

[Planet surface]

RIKER: Geordi, can you see Worf? 
LAFORGE: I'd see the freckles on his nose if he had them, sir. He's at
the third ridge. 
DATA: The third ridge? 
LAFORGE: Moving well too. Oh, oh. Good, he sees them. 
(Them being soldiers in an camp. And they grunt like pigs. Worf runs
back) 
