RIKER LAFORGE WORF TASHA PICARD Q DATA

[Planet surface]

(sand and rocks under a green sky with yellow
horizon) 
RIKER: Where are we? 
DATA: Obviously a class M world. Gravity and oxygen within our limits. 
LAFORGE: Twin moons. Where are we? 
DATA: Considering the power demonstrated by Q the last time, anywhere.
Assuming this place even exists. 
RIKER: But this won't be boring. If Q is anything, he's imaginative.
Apparently our Captain wasn't meant to be with us here. 
[Bridge]

PICARD: Security, this is the Captain. Security?
Engineering, this is the Bridge. 
(Control panels don't operate. Doors don't open) 
PICARD: Turbolift Control, do you read? This is the Captain. 
(But answer came there none)

[Planet surface]

TASHA: Sir! Over here. 
(It's Q, in a French uniform complete with tricorn hat and tricolor
cockade) 
Q: Join me, Riker. A good game needs rules and planning. Wasn't it your
own Hartley who said, nothing reveals humanity so well as the games it
plays? Almost right. Actually, you reveal yourselves best in how you
play. 
DATA: Sir, what he has in mind might provide us with vital information.

(Riker joins Q at a table in front of a tent. He picks up a glass to
drink) 
RIKER: Incredible. I was just thinking about an old-fashioned lemonade.

Q: And so it became that. An excellent thirst quencher. It gets rather
hot out on this plain. 
RIKER: What about my people? 
Q: Whatever they'd like, of course! 
(Glasses appear in everyone's hands. Worf ostentatiously pours his onto
the ground) 
Q: Drink not with thine enemy. The rigid Klingon code. That explains
something of why you defeated them. 
RIKER: You're still fascinated with the human past? Perhaps you're not
that original. 
Q: Au contraire! It's the human future which intrigues us, and should
concern you most. You see, of all species, yours cannot abide
stagnation. Change is at the heart of what you are. But change into
what? That's the question. 
DATA: That is what humans call a truism. 
Q: You mean hardly original? 
RIKER: You're the one who said it. While we're at it, this isn't part
of any human future. 
Q: True. I borrowed this from your stodgy Captain's mind. This is
dressing for a game that we will play. Now games require rules and
rewards and
dangers and familiar settings. That sort of thing. 
RIKER: This isn't that familiar to me. Data? 
DATA: This is from Europe's Napoleonic era, sir. Late eighteenth, early
nineteenth centuries. This is a campaign headquarters tent, his uniform
is that of a French Army marshal. 
RIKER: And a marshal outranks even an Admiral 
Q: Well, do you think I would go from a Starfleet Admiral to anything
else? 
RIKER: Of course you wouldn't. But Napoleonic equipment on an alien
planet. One so different it has twin moons? 
Q: Well, as you said, I'm nothing if not imaginative. And the game
should reflect that. Shall it be a test of strength? Meaningless, since
you have none. A test of intelligence, then? Equally as meaningless.
But it needs risk, something to win and something to lose. 
RIKER: If we must play a game, what would we win? 
Q: The greatest possible future that you can imagine. Which, of course,
requires something totally disastrous if you lose. Now the point of
this game shall be, can any of you can stay alive? 
WORF: If your game is fair, we will. 
Q: Oh, for shame, Worf. Fairness is such a human concept. Think
imaginatively! This game shall in fact be completely unfair. 
TASHA: You've gone too far! 
Q: Game penalty! 
(Tasha vanishes) 
RIKER: Where is she, Q? You can forget your game if 
Q: To use a twentieth century term, she's in a penalty box. Where she
will remain unharmed unless one of you merits a penalty. Unfortunately,
there is only one penalty box. If any of you should be sent there, dear
Tasha must give the box up to you. 
LAFORGE: And where does she go? 
Q: Into nothingness. I entreat you to carefully obey the rules of the
game. The only one who can destroy your Tasha now is you.

