RIKER LAFORGE WORF TASHA PICARD Q WESLEY CREWMAN [OC] DATA
school aesthetically century ways send damn experience aeon comes

[Bridge]

(The forcefield vanishes while Tasha is sitting
alone on the Bridge. Everything comes back to life and Picard comes out
of the Ready room) 
PICARD: Lieutenant, take the conn position. Engineering, this is the
Bridge. 
CREWMAN [OC]: Engineering here, sir. 
PICARD: Engineering, are all systems back online? 
CREWMAN [OC]: Back online, sir? They were never off. 
TASHA: Captain, you'd better look at this. There's been no interruption
in course or speed. Both have remained constant. It's as though we
never stopped. 
PICARD: We never did, Lieutenant. Q suspended time. 
(Worf, Data and Geordi appear) 
TASHA: Where's Commander Riker? 
WORF: He was with us. 
LAFORGE: He must still be on the planet. We were under attack by these,
these animal things. 
PICARD: Animal things? 
LAFORGE: Well, maybe Data could explain better, sir. 
DATA: You may find it aesthetically displeasing, sir. I could just file
a computer report on that. 
PICARD: Data! 
TASHA: Sir, the important thing right now is why is Commander Riker
missing? 
PICARD: Understood, Lieutenant, but I suspect that Commander Riker is
probably perfectly safe, at least in a physical sense. Q has an
interest in him. In fact, Q's entire visit has something to do with our
First Officer. 
DATA: And the reason for that, sir? 
PICARD: I wish I knew. Q first became interested in him at Farpoint. I
have no idea what it means. Meanwhile, we must proceed with our rescue
mission.

[Planet surface]

(Riker is sitting on a rock, laughing) 
Q: Something amuses you? Perhaps you'll share the joke with me? 
RIKER: The joke is you. 
Q: Strange gratitude, from one who has been granted a gift beyond any
human dream. How can you not appreciate being able to send your friends
back to their ship, or sending the soldiers back to the nothingness
from which they came?
Certainly, you must understand that at this moment you can send
yourself back to the ship or to Earth, or change your shape and become
anything else you want to be. 
RIKER: What do you need, Q? 
Q: Need? 
RIKER: You want something from us, desperately. What is it? 
Q: Want something from you foolish, fragile, non-entities? Oh come,
Riker. You're beginning to sound like your Captain. 
RIKER: Now that's a compliment, Q. But that's not an answer. 
Q: Riker, we have offered you a gift beyond all other gifts! 
RIKER: Out of the goodness of your heart. 
Q: After Farpoint, I returned to where we exist. The Q Continuum. 
RIKER: Which means exactly what? 
Q: The limitless dimensions of the galaxy in which we exist. 
RIKER: I don't understand. 
Q: Of course you don't, and you never will until you become one of us. 
RIKER: Until? Would you mind going over that again? 
Q: Well if you'll stop interrupting me. This is hardly a time to be
teaching you the true nature of the universe. However, at Farpoint we
saw you as savages only. We discovered instead that you are unusual
creatures in your own limited ways. Ways which in time will not be so
limited. 
RIKER: We're growing. Something about us compels us to learn, explore. 
Q: Yes, the human compulsion. And unfortunately for us, it is a power
which will grow stronger century after century, aeon after aeon. 
RIKER: Aeons. Have you any idea how far we'll advance? 
Q: Perhaps in a future that you cannot yet conceive, even beyond us. So
you see, we must know more about this human condition. That's why we've
selected you, Riker, to become part of the Q, so that you can bring to
us this human need and hunger, that we may understand it. 
RIKER: I suppose you mean that as a compliment, Q. Or maybe it's my
limited mind. But to become a part of you? I don't even like you. 
Q: You're going to miss me! 
(Q vanishes and the Bridge crew appear) 
LAFORGE: Come on, not again! 
WESLEY: Commander Riker, what's going on? I was sitting in school and 
TASHA: Worf, my phaser's gone. Are you armed? 
WORF: No. 
(The animal solders advance) 
PICARD: Where is Q? If you have any answer to any of this? 
(Worf charges to meet their enemy. He knocks two down before being
bayoneted in the stomach) 
WESLEY: Worf! 
(He dashes to Worf) 
RIKER: Look out! 
PICARD: Wesley, no! 
(Wesley gets bayoneted from behind. I confess, I cheered) 
RIKER: Wesley! 
PICARD: Wesley! 
RIKER: No! Damn it! Damn it to hell! 
(Riker throws up a Q forcefield in front of the soldiers) 
PICARD: Riker. You! You did that! 
RIKER: And that's not all!

[Bridge]

(They are all back on the Bridge, alive and well,
including Wesley - sob) 
PICARD: That grid, their wounds. Only the Q can do that. 

Captain's log, stardate 41591.4. Twelve minutes out
from Quadra Sigma Three where the survivors of an underground disaster
desperately need our help. Aboard the Enterprise, First Officer William
T. Riker needs help nearly as badly. But this is a subject far out of
my experience. Out of any human's experience.

