RIKER LAFORGE WORF TASHA PICARD Q CRUSHER DATA

 [Corridor]

CRUSHER: Include a burn unit with each kit. Upon
arrival, identify the most critically injured and beam them up to cargo
bay six. 
PICARD [OC]: Doctor Crusher, this is the Captain. 
CRUSHER: Doctor Crusher here. 

[Bridge]

PICARD: Additional information. The number of
colonists at the site is five hundred and four. Are you prepared for
that many, Doctor? 
CRUSHER [OC]: We believe so, sir. 
LAFORGE: Captain, we are now at warp nine point one, sir. 
DATA: Which will bring us to the colony in three point two hours, sir. 
RIKER: Captain, I have a schematic of the explosion site. It suggests
the cause as a methane-like gas seeping in from underground. 
LAFORGE: Captain, I'm picking up a forcefield out there of some kind.
It's almost 
(The chain-link that envelopes the Enterprise is straight out of  Encounter At
Farpoint.) 
DATA: The Q entity, sir. It is identical to the grid we encountered
when 
WORF: It reads solid, sir. 
PICARD: Emergency. Full stop. 
LAFORGE: Reversing power, sir. 
PICARD: Not now, damn it, Q. 
TASHA: Shields and deflectors up, sir.
LAFORGE: Now reading full stop, sir.
(There's a flash, and something similar to Prince of Wales' feathers
hovers) 
Q: Humans, I thought by now you would have scampered back to your own
little star system. 
PICARD: If this is Q I'm addressing, we are on a mission of rescue
where a group of badly injured 
Q: We the Q have studied our recent contact with you, and are
impressed. We have much to discuss, including perhaps the realisation
of your most impossible dream. 
PICARD: However intriguing that may be, we are now in the midst of an
urgent journey. Once that is completed, then, perhaps 
Q: You will abandon that mission, Captain. My business with you takes
precedence. If my magnificence blinds you, then perhaps something more
familiar. 
(Flash, and the familiar human shape of John de Lancie, this time
costumed as) 
Q: Starfleet Admiral Q, at your service. 
Captain's log, supplemental. Our rescue mission to
the Sigma Three solar system has been halted by an immense grid and an
untimely visit from Q

