 RIKER LAFORGE WORF TASHA PICARD Q CREWMAN DATA

[Ready Room]

PICARD: Listen to me, Q. You seem to have some need
for humans. 
Q: Concern regarding them. 
PICARD: Whatever it is, why do you demonstrate it through this
confrontation? Why not a simple, direct explanation, a statement of
what you seek? Why these games? 
Q: Why these games? Why, the play's the thing. And I'm surprised you
have to ask when your human Shakespeare explained it all so well. 
PICARD: So he did, but don't depend too much on any single viewpoint 
Q: It's a pity you don't know the content of your own library. Hear
this, Picard, and reflect. All the galaxy's a stage. 
PICARD: World, not galaxy. All the world's a stage. 
Q: Oh, you know that one? Well, if he were living now he would have
said galaxy. How about this? Life is but a walking shadow, a poor
player that struts and frets his hour upon the stage and then is heard
no more. It is a tale told by an idiot, full of sound and fury,
signifying nothing. 
PICARD: I see. So how we respond to a game tells you more about us than
our real life, this tale told by an idiot? Interesting, Q. 
Q: Oh, thank you very much. I'm glad you enjoyed it. Perhaps maybe a
little Hamlet? 
PICARD: Oh, no. I know Hamlet. And what he might said with irony, I say
with conviction. What a piece of work is man. How noble in reason. How
infinite in faculty. In form, in moving, how express and admirable. In
action, how like an angel. In apprehension, how like a god. 
Q: Surely you don't really see your species like that, do you? 
PICARD: I see us one day becoming that, Q. Is it that what concerns
you?

[Planet]

LAFORGE: Those soldiers have formed a skirmishing
line, I think you'd call it, and they're headed this way. 
RIKER: Armed with ancient ball and powder muskets? 
LAFORGE: That's what their weapons look like, sir. 
DATA: Muskets are appropriate to the 1790 to 1800 French army uniform,
sir. But it is hardly a weapon by our standards. A lead ball propelled
by gunpowder. One hundred metres at best with any accuracy. 
LAFORGE: Yeah, but against phasers? Just one of our hand phasers could
finish off an entire regiment. 
RIKER: Except for one thing. It hardly sounds like Q to give us an
advantage like that. Unless. 
(He does a test firing. A rock blows up most satisfactorily) 
WORF: Drop your weapons! 
RIKER: I'm afraid that was me, Worf. I was checking to see if the
phasers still operate. 
LAFORGE: Incredible, Worf! You came out of nowhere. 
WORF: A warrior's reaction. 
RIKER: Report. What did you find? 
WORF: Sir, what they're wearing may be old Earth uniforms, but what's
inside of them isn't human at all. More like vicious animal things. 
(And here they come) 
LAFORGE: Those soldiers are moving in fast, sir. 
RIKER: Data, if you've got a theory about what's happening? 
(But it's not Data, it's Q made up to look like him) 
Q (DATA): Think fast, Commander Riker, and move fast. 
(One of the soldiers fires. An energy bolt comes from the musket) 
RIKER: Those aren't muskets. 
(He vapourises two soldiers) 
Q (DATA): You have only one chance to save them now. Send them back to
the ship. 
RIKER: You'll let me beam them? 
Q (DATA): Send them the same way as I do. I've given you that power. Do
you understand? I have given you the power of the Q. Use it. 
(Q vanishes) 
Q [OC]: Use your power. 
(The real Data reappears) 
Q [OC]: Use your power. 
(Riker holds up his hand and beams Worf, Data and Geordi away)

[Bridge]

(The forcefield vanishes while Tasha is sitting
alone on the Bridge. Everything comes back to life and Picard comes out
of the Ready room) 
PICARD: Lieutenant, take the conn position. Engineering, this is the
Bridge. 
CREWMAN [OC]: Engineering here, sir. 
PICARD: Engineering, are all systems back online? 
CREWMAN [OC]: Back online, sir? They were never off. 
TASHA: Captain, you'd better look at this. There's been no interruption
in course or speed. Both have remained constant. It's as though we
never stopped. 
PICARD: We never did, Lieutenant. Q suspended time. 
(Worf, Data and Geordi appear) 
TASHA: Where's Commander Riker? 
WORF: He was with us. 
LAFORGE: He must still be on the planet. We were under attack by these,
these animal things. 
PICARD: Animal things? 
LAFORGE: Well, maybe Data could explain better, sir. 
DATA: You may find it aesthetically displeasing, sir. I could just file
a computer report on that. 
PICARD: Data! 
TASHA: Sir, the important thing right now is why is Commander Riker
missing? 
PICARD: Understood, Lieutenant, but I suspect that Commander Riker is
probably perfectly safe, at least in a physical sense. Q has an
interest in him. In fact, Q's entire visit has something to do with our
First Officer. 
DATA: And the reason for that, sir? 
PICARD: I wish I knew. Q first became interested in him at Farpoint. I
have no idea what it means. Meanwhile, we must proceed with our rescue
mission.

