RIKER LAFORGE WORF TASHA PICARD Q CRUSHER [OC] DATA
identical wish ll game redoubtable brain reads familiar say

[Bridge]

PICARD: Additional information. The number of
colonists at the site is five hundred and four. Are you prepared for
that many, Doctor? 
CRUSHER [OC]: We believe so, sir. 
LAFORGE: Captain, we are now at warp nine point one, sir. 
DATA: Which will bring us to the colony in three point two hours, sir. 
RIKER: Captain, I have a schematic of the explosion site. It suggests
the cause as a methane-like gas seeping in from underground. 
LAFORGE: Captain, I'm picking up a forcefield out there of some kind.
It's almost 
(The chain-link that envelopes the Enterprise is straight out of  Encounter At
Farpoint.) 
DATA: The Q entity, sir. It is identical to the grid we encountered
when 
WORF: It reads solid, sir. 
PICARD: Emergency. Full stop. 
LAFORGE: Reversing power, sir. 
PICARD: Not now, damn it, Q. 
TASHA: Shields and deflectors up, sir.
LAFORGE: Now reading full stop, sir.
(There's a flash, and something similar to Prince of Wales' feathers
hovers) 
Q: Humans, I thought by now you would have scampered back to your own
little star system. 
PICARD: If this is Q I'm addressing, we are on a mission of rescue
where a group of badly injured 
Q: We the Q have studied our recent contact with you, and are
impressed. We have much to discuss, including perhaps the realisation
of your most impossible dream. 
PICARD: However intriguing that may be, we are now in the midst of an
urgent journey. Once that is completed, then, perhaps 
Q: You will abandon that mission, Captain. My business with you takes
precedence. If my magnificence blinds you, then perhaps something more
familiar. 
(Flash, and the familiar human shape of John de Lancie, this time
costumed as) 
Q: Starfleet Admiral Q, at your service. 
Captain's log, supplemental. Our rescue mission to
the Sigma Three solar system has been halted by an immense grid and an
untimely visit from Q

[Bridge]

PICARD: You're no Starfleet Admiral, Q. 
Q: Neither am I an Aldebaran serpent, Captain, but you accepted me as
such. 
RIKER: He's got us there, Captain. 
Q: The redoubtable Commander Riker, whom I noticed before. You seem to
find this all very amusing. 
RIKER: I might, if we weren't on our way to help some suffering and
dying humans who 
Q: Your species is always suffering and dying. 
PICARD: No, Lieutenant Worf. You'll make no move against him unless I
order it. 
Q: Pity. You might have learned an interesting lesson. Macro head with
a micro brain. 
PICARD: You said you had the realisation of impossible dreams to offer
us. When this rescue is completed, I am prepared to listen carefully to
whatever proposal you wish to make and subject to it being acceptable 
Q: Subject to your foolish human values? Oh, come, Picard. Why do you
distrust me so? 
PICARD: Why? At our first meeting you seized my vessel. You condemned
all humans as savages, and on that charge you tried us in a post-atomic
twenty first century court of horrors, where you attacked my people.
You again seized my vessel. 
Q: And that angered you, did it? Seized my vessel, seized my vessel. 
PICARD: You interfered with our Farpoint mission. You threatened to
convict us as ignorant savages, if, while dealing with a powerful and
complex life forms, we made the slightest mistake, and when that didn't
happen 
Q: The Q became interested in you. Does no one here understand your
incredible good fortune? Seized my vessel. These are the complaints of
a closed mind too accustomed to military privileges. But you, Riker,
and I remember you well, what do you make of my offer? 
RIKER: We don't have time for these games. 
Q: Games? Did someone say games? And perchance for interest's sake, a
deadly game? To the game.
(A flash, and Picard is alone on the Bridge)

