Q PICARD RIKER DATA LAFORGE

[Bridge]

PICARD: You're no Starfleet Admiral, Q. 
Q: Neither am I an Aldebaran serpent, Captain, but you accepted me as
such. 
RIKER: He's got us there, Captain. 
Q: The redoubtable Commander Riker, whom I noticed before. You seem to
find this all very amusing. 
RIKER: I might, if we weren't on our way to help some suffering and
dying humans who 
Q: Your species is always suffering and dying. 
PICARD: No, Lieutenant Worf. You'll make no move against him unless I
order it. 
Q: Pity. You might have learned an interesting lesson. Macro head with
a micro brain. 
PICARD: You said you had the realisation of impossible dreams to offer
us. When this rescue is completed, I am prepared to listen carefully to
whatever proposal you wish to make and subject to it being acceptable 
Q: Subject to your foolish human values? Oh, come, Picard. Why do you
distrust me so? 
PICARD: Why? At our first meeting you seized my vessel. You condemned
all humans as savages, and on that charge you tried us in a post-atomic
twenty first century court of horrors, where you attacked my people.
You again seized my vessel. 
Q: And that angered you, did it? Seized my vessel, seized my vessel. 
PICARD: You interfered with our Farpoint mission. You threatened to
convict us as ignorant savages, if, while dealing with a powerful and
complex life forms, we made the slightest mistake, and when that didn't
happen 
Q: The Q became interested in you. Does no one here understand your
incredible good fortune? Seized my vessel. These are the complaints of
a closed mind too accustomed to military privileges. But you, Riker,
and I remember you well, what do you make of my offer? 
RIKER: We don't have time for these games. 
Q: Games? Did someone say games? And perchance for interest's sake, a
deadly game? To the game.
(A flash, and Picard is alone on the Bridge)

[Planet surface]

(sand and rocks under a green sky with yellow
horizon) 
RIKER: Where are we? 
DATA: Obviously a class M world. Gravity and oxygen within our limits. 
LAFORGE: Twin moons. Where are we? 
DATA: Considering the power demonstrated by Q the last time, anywhere.
Assuming this place even exists. 
RIKER: But this won't be boring. If Q is anything, he's imaginative.
Apparently our Captain wasn't meant to be with us here. 
