RIKER LAFORGE WORF TASHA PICARD Q WESLEY Q [OC] CREWMAN [OC] Q (DATA) DATA
interruption cheered century ways mission right damn aeon physical

[Planet]

LAFORGE: Those soldiers have formed a skirmishing
line, I think you'd call it, and they're headed this way. 
RIKER: Armed with ancient ball and powder muskets? 
LAFORGE: That's what their weapons look like, sir. 
DATA: Muskets are appropriate to the 1790 to 1800 French army uniform,
sir. But it is hardly a weapon by our standards. A lead ball propelled
by gunpowder. One hundred metres at best with any accuracy. 
LAFORGE: Yeah, but against phasers? Just one of our hand phasers could
finish off an entire regiment. 
RIKER: Except for one thing. It hardly sounds like Q to give us an
advantage like that. Unless. 
(He does a test firing. A rock blows up most satisfactorily) 
WORF: Drop your weapons! 
RIKER: I'm afraid that was me, Worf. I was checking to see if the
phasers still operate. 
LAFORGE: Incredible, Worf! You came out of nowhere. 
WORF: A warrior's reaction. 
RIKER: Report. What did you find? 
WORF: Sir, what they're wearing may be old Earth uniforms, but what's
inside of them isn't human at all. More like vicious animal things. 
(And here they come) 
LAFORGE: Those soldiers are moving in fast, sir. 
RIKER: Data, if you've got a theory about what's happening? 
(But it's not Data, it's Q made up to look like him) 
Q (DATA): Think fast, Commander Riker, and move fast. 
(One of the soldiers fires. An energy bolt comes from the musket) 
RIKER: Those aren't muskets. 
(He vapourises two soldiers) 
Q (DATA): You have only one chance to save them now. Send them back to
the ship. 
RIKER: You'll let me beam them? 
Q (DATA): Send them the same way as I do. I've given you that power. Do
you understand? I have given you the power of the Q. Use it. 
(Q vanishes) 
Q [OC]: Use your power. 
(The real Data reappears) 
Q [OC]: Use your power. 
(Riker holds up his hand and beams Worf, Data and Geordi away)

[Bridge]

(The forcefield vanishes while Tasha is sitting
alone on the Bridge. Everything comes back to life and Picard comes out
of the Ready room) 
PICARD: Lieutenant, take the conn position. Engineering, this is the
Bridge. 
CREWMAN [OC]: Engineering here, sir. 
PICARD: Engineering, are all systems back online? 
CREWMAN [OC]: Back online, sir? They were never off. 
TASHA: Captain, you'd better look at this. There's been no interruption
in course or speed. Both have remained constant. It's as though we
never stopped. 
PICARD: We never did, Lieutenant. Q suspended time. 
(Worf, Data and Geordi appear) 
TASHA: Where's Commander Riker? 
WORF: He was with us. 
LAFORGE: He must still be on the planet. We were under attack by these,
these animal things. 
PICARD: Animal things? 
LAFORGE: Well, maybe Data could explain better, sir. 
DATA: You may find it aesthetically displeasing, sir. I could just file
a computer report on that. 
PICARD: Data! 
TASHA: Sir, the important thing right now is why is Commander Riker
missing? 
PICARD: Understood, Lieutenant, but I suspect that Commander Riker is
probably perfectly safe, at least in a physical sense. Q has an
interest in him. In fact, Q's entire visit has something to do with our
First Officer. 
DATA: And the reason for that, sir? 
PICARD: I wish I knew. Q first became interested in him at Farpoint. I
have no idea what it means. Meanwhile, we must proceed with our rescue
mission.

[Planet surface]

(Riker is sitting on a rock, laughing) 
Q: Something amuses you? Perhaps you'll share the joke with me? 
RIKER: The joke is you. 
Q: Strange gratitude, from one who has been granted a gift beyond any
human dream. How can you not appreciate being able to send your friends
back to their ship, or sending the soldiers back to the nothingness
from which they came?
Certainly, you must understand that at this moment you can send
yourself back to the ship or to Earth, or change your shape and become
anything else you want to be. 
RIKER: What do you need, Q? 
Q: Need? 
RIKER: You want something from us, desperately. What is it? 
Q: Want something from you foolish, fragile, non-entities? Oh come,
Riker. You're beginning to sound like your Captain. 
RIKER: Now that's a compliment, Q. But that's not an answer. 
Q: Riker, we have offered you a gift beyond all other gifts! 
RIKER: Out of the goodness of your heart. 
Q: After Farpoint, I returned to where we exist. The Q Continuum. 
RIKER: Which means exactly what? 
Q: The limitless dimensions of the galaxy in which we exist. 
RIKER: I don't understand. 
Q: Of course you don't, and you never will until you become one of us. 
RIKER: Until? Would you mind going over that again? 
Q: Well if you'll stop interrupting me. This is hardly a time to be
teaching you the true nature of the universe. However, at Farpoint we
saw you as savages only. We discovered instead that you are unusual
creatures in your own limited ways. Ways which in time will not be so
limited. 
RIKER: We're growing. Something about us compels us to learn, explore. 
Q: Yes, the human compulsion. And unfortunately for us, it is a power
which will grow stronger century after century, aeon after aeon. 
RIKER: Aeons. Have you any idea how far we'll advance? 
Q: Perhaps in a future that you cannot yet conceive, even beyond us. So
you see, we must know more about this human condition. That's why we've
selected you, Riker, to become part of the Q, so that you can bring to
us this human need and hunger, that we may understand it. 
RIKER: I suppose you mean that as a compliment, Q. Or maybe it's my
limited mind. But to become a part of you? I don't even like you. 
Q: You're going to miss me! 
(Q vanishes and the Bridge crew appear) 
LAFORGE: Come on, not again! 
WESLEY: Commander Riker, what's going on? I was sitting in school and 
TASHA: Worf, my phaser's gone. Are you armed? 
WORF: No. 
(The animal solders advance) 
PICARD: Where is Q? If you have any answer to any of this? 
(Worf charges to meet their enemy. He knocks two down before being
bayoneted in the stomach) 
WESLEY: Worf! 
(He dashes to Worf) 
RIKER: Look out! 
PICARD: Wesley, no! 
(Wesley gets bayoneted from behind. I confess, I cheered) 
RIKER: Wesley! 
PICARD: Wesley! 
RIKER: No! Damn it! Damn it to hell! 
(Riker throws up a Q forcefield in front of the soldiers) 
PICARD: Riker. You! You did that! 
RIKER: And that's not all!

