JAMESON PICARD ANNE CRUSHER

[Crusher's office]

CRUSHER: I found traces of chemical substances in
his blood and tissue samples, but none of them are in our
pharmacopoeia. I'm still working on alien references to substances like
these. All I can tell you is that he's ingested something that's
strongly affecting his body. 
PICARD: Specifics, Doctor. 
CRUSHER: Captain, there are so many things going on, I can't give you
specifics until I do a lot more tests. 
PICARD: Give me what you have now. 
CRUSHER: His red cell count is running riot. The cellular structure of
his body is radically changing, but we can't make any decisions on that
until we know what it's changing to. His DNA is skewed. Don't ask me
how, but he even looks younger. And Captain, there are absolutely no
traces of Iverson's Disease. 
PICARD: You said there is no cure for Iverson's. 
CRUSHER: None that we know of. But whatever these substances are doing
to his body, at least they've done that for him. But how or why? It's
too early to say. 
PICARD: Get me some answers, Doctor. As soon as possible. 
CRUSHER: Yes, sir.

[Jameson's quarters]

ANNE: Captain. 
PICARD: Mrs. Jameson, I have to ask the Admiral some questions. 
JAMESON: Ask away. There's nothing to hide now. 
(He is a lot younger, thirties or forties) 
PICARD: Admiral, in addition to your rank, you are a particularly
valuable commodity just now. Starfleet has a right to some answers. 
JAMESON: I've planned this for a long time, ever since I learned I had
Iverson's Disease. Since it put me in that chair. 
ANNE: What did you do, Mark? 
JAMESON: There's a planet in the Cerebus system, Cerebus Two. They say
the natives have a process that rejuvenates the body, gives you your
youth back. 
PICARD: Yes, I've heard of that story. It's a myth. 
JAMESON: It's true, Picard. I'm living proof. Oh, it's dangerous. The
mortality rate is high, and it's very painful. Aliens are seldom
allowed to obtain the process, but I managed it. I negotiated a treaty
for Cerebus Two some years ago, and they felt obligated to honour my
request for the process. 
PICARD: Obviously it works very rapidly, but how does it work? 
JAMESON: The herb and drug combinations are self-administered slowly
over a period of two years. Every response is different, depending on a
being's DNA. I got enough for both of us, Annie, but I had to test it
on myself first. I couldn't risk you. If I died, well, I was half a
man, so what did it matter. 
ANNE: It would matter to me. 
JAMESON: But I was starting to change, Anne. It was almost
undetectable, but the improvement was there. Then when this hostage
situation came up, I knew I'd have to be at my peak to deal with it. I
didn't have time to wait for the drug to work naturally. 
PICARD: So you took the whole dose. 
JAMESON: I took both of them. And look at me, Annie, look at me. I'm
strong. I'm alert, Fit. I'm fitter than you are, Picard. And I'm
getting younger! 
PICARD: The only question I have, Admiral, is why you thought it
necessary to be young to negotiate the release of the hostages. Even
willing to put your life at risk for it. I'll be on the Bridge,
Admiral, if you want to talk further. 
(Picard leaves) 
ANNE: Why didn't you tell me, Mark? We've always been honest with each
other, until now. 
JAMESON: Annie, I did it for us. 
ANNE: Oh, I'm sure you believed that, until you had a chance to head up
a mission, to command again, and then you just upended the bottle or
whatever it was, and damn everything. Did you think about me at all? 
JAMESON: I obtained enough of the dosage for both of us. 
ANNE: But you never asked if I wanted it. It's just like you, Mark, to
assume that what you felt was right was the only answer. 
JAMESON: But it was the right answer for me. It was killing you, having
to take care of an invalid. Annie, what good was I to you? We can be
together again. 
ANNE: Let me go! 
JAMESON: I can get you another supply of the drug.

