RIKER JAMESON PICARD TROI KARNAS GEORDI CRUSHER DATA

[Bridge]

GEORDI: Message coming in from Mordan, sir. 
PICARD: Put it on the screen, Mister Data. 
KARNAS [on viewscreen]: Mordan Four to Enterprise. This is Karnas. I
will speak to the Captain. 
PICARD: I am Captain Picard, commanding the Enterprise. 
KARNAS [on viewscreen]: Is Admiral Jameson on board? 
PICARD: He's here, beside my First Officer. Do you wish to speak to him
now? 
KARNAS [on viewscreen]: So, Jameson. I see time has not been kind. 
JAMESON: It seldom is, Karnas. However, we could save a good deal of it
now if you'll outline the terrorists' demands. 
KARNAS [on viewscreen]: They insist all discussions will take place
here on Mordan. They refuse to speak to me, only to a Federation
mediator. They say they will brook no excuses. If there are any
offered, your ambassador and his people will die. Unpleasantly. I
believe them. So should you, Admiral. 
JAMESON: Tell them I accept the conditions of negotiation. 
KARNAS [on viewscreen]: I will do so immediately. (transmission ends) 
RIKER: For a man in his position, he doesn't seem to know much about
the situation. 
JAMESON: Wrong, Number One. He told me that the terrorists are
desperate enough to kill if they're crossed. They are willing to talk,
one on one, but not to him. 
PICARD: Counsellor? 
TROI: From his body language as well as his words and tone, I'd judge
that what Karnas said was honest. But I sensed a holding back. 
PICARD: Perhaps he knows more about the terrorists than he's prepared
to admit. 
JAMESON: Possible, but I suspect it's closer to the mark if we said he
doesn't want to admit failure of his own efforts to negotiate. He is a
proud man. 
TROI: That could be, sir. Karnas has established himself as a powerful
man on Mordan. Suddenly, in this situation, his power is useless. 
CRUSHER [OC]: Sickbay to Bridge. I'm ready for Admiral Jameson now. 
PICARD: In a few moments, Doctor. 
JAMESON: Ready for what, Captain? 
PICARD: Just a routine medical checkup. Ship's regulations.

[Ready room]

RIKER: What I don't understand, sir, is how Karnas
knew you were still available. 
JAMESON: Still alive, you mean. 
RIKER: So far as he knew, sir, you could have been dead. 
JAMESON: Quite right, Commander, but I am not, and I imagine Ambassador
Hawkins has told him that. I briefed the Ambassador about Mordan before
he left to take up residence. 
PICARD: All right. Karnas has a problem he thinks you can resolve. What
do the terrorists need that Karnas can't, or won't, give them? 
DATA: Mordan has had peace for five years. They have finally come to a
state of productivity which satisfies their planetary needs, but no
more than that. Perhaps the dissidents feel the Federation could
provide them with more. 
JAMESON: I have negotiated many treaties on many planets, Picard. I've
found that peace, or the appearance of it, is often a prelude to war. 
TROI: Admiral, are you suggesting the terrorists want arms and weapons?

JAMESON: They may. I am suggesting Karnas is the last man to give them
such weapons. 
TROI: I see. You believe that Karnas would not negotiate on that point,
and so the terrorists demanded an outside negotiator. 
JAMESON: I know Karnas. He is a warrior. He lives for challenge. These
people have insulted his honour by taking the embassy staff hostage.
I'll negotiate, but I'll have to be very careful in dealing with
Karnas. He'll want revenge for that insult. 
