RIKER LAFORGE WORF JAMESON PICARD TROI KARNAS TASHA ANNE CRUSHER DATA

[Observation lounge]

JAMESON: Karnas. 
KARNAS [OC]: What is it you want, Admiral? 
JAMESON: We're on a secured channel, Karnas. You can talk freely. Who's
behind this thing? You said dissidents. 
KARNAS [on monitor]: Yes, political opponents who feel the Federation
will disavow me as Governor if they stir up enough trouble on Mordan. 
JAMESON: Then who is it? Ardan? Gilnor? 
KARNAS [on monitor]: They're dead, Jameson. A long time now. For a long
time I thought you were dead, too. 
JAMESON: I almost died a couple of times on missions, but I always made
it through somehow. 
KARNAS [on monitor]: Yes. Now you're coming back to Mordan to negotiate
for hostages again. It's almost as though the forty five years
in-between never happened. 
JAMESON: You've never forgiven me. 
KARNAS [on monitor]: Of course I have. It was years ago. 
JAMESON: There are no dissidents, are there? No terrorists. You have
the hostages. 
KARNAS [on monitor]: And if I have? You're coming to Mordan, Jameson,
and you're going to negotiate for their lives. And I'm going to ask a
very, very high price. 
JAMESON: What if I refuse? 
KARNAS [on monitor]: Then the hostages will die. You've seen how my
executioners work. They are still as efficient as they were, perhaps
even more skilled now. You'll come, even if you don't have much honour
left. 
[Bridge]

JAMESON: Conn, are we still on schedule to arrive
at Mordan in thirty eight hours? 
LAFORGE: Aye, sir. We're at warp four. 
JAMESON: Picard, I want a jump to warp eight, so that we arrive ahead
of our announced ETA. It'll throw Karnas off balance, and we can catch
him before he's ready. 
PICARD: Ready for exactly what, Admiral? 
JAMESON: I believe Karnas has the hostages, and there never were any
dissidents. 
PICARD: What has happened to bring you to that conclusion? That's quite
a big jump. 
JAMESON: I'm not at liberty to say, Picard, but negotiations are no
longer the answer. 
PICARD: Isn't the most important thing the hostage's lives? 
JAMESON: And you agree with that too, Riker? 
RIKER: I do, sir. 
JAMESON: Good. Because I plan to personally lead an away team on an
armed rescue mission to get them out of there. 
(Later, Jameson is in the Captain's chair, giving the orders) 
JAMESON: Commander Data, bring up the plans I requested on the
viewscreen, please. 
DATA: Aye, sir. 
JAMESON: Most of Mordan's principal city was devastated during the war.
What was left consisted largely of a network of underground tunnels. A
rat's maze. When they rebuilt the city, they simply built over the
tunnels. 
DATA: I have it, sir. 
LAFORGE: Pardon me, sir, but where do these tunnels come into the
picture? 
JAMESON: This is where Karnas held his hostages before and where I
believe he has them now. 
PICARD: Wouldn't that be a little obvious, Admiral? 
JAMESON: Karnas is a dogged strategist, Picard, not a brilliant one. He
sticks to what works. He will kill the hostages if we do not get them
out of there. 
PICARD: Therefore you see this armed raid as the only option. 
JAMESON: You don't agree? 
PICARD: With respect, Admiral, I would point out no one else has heard
or considered Karnas's demands. The Federation might view them
differently if they knew what they were. 
JAMESON: Starfleet has given me command of the away team, Picard, and I
intend to use them as I see fit.

[Doctor's office]

ANNE: Our anniversary is next week. Our fiftieth. 
CRUSHER: In his heart, he's still the same man you married, Anne. 
TROI: That's true. He still cares for you, despite the physical changes
he's undergoing. 
ANNE: But he's getting younger, and I'm, well look at me. Why did he do
this? 
TROI: Because there are lives at stake, Mrs. Jameson. 
ANNE: What about our lives, his and mine? I was looking forward to time
together finally. Our retirement. Now he's young again, and has his
life to live over. 
TROI: Doctor, she has to know. 
ANNE: Know what? 
CRUSHER: Anne, your husband. 
ANNE: What is it? 
CRUSHER: He's not stabilising. He may not have that life to live over.

[Observation lounge]

(It's dark, so we can assume that Jameson is even
younger than last time. Picard enters) 
JAMESON: We'll be at Mordan in three hours. 
PICARD: I couldn't sleep either. 
JAMESON: I never could before a mission. I always wound up in the
observation lounge, staring out at the stars, thinking. 
PICARD: Perhaps in this case, rethinking? 
(Jameson turns so we can see the brown-haired, smooth-skinned twenty
something he has become) 
PICARD: Why is this mission so important to you? Why did you risk your
life to lead it personally? 
JAMESON: I want to save lives, Captain. 
PICARD: Noble sentiments, but that's too easy an answer. You've been
here before. You negotiated a release of the hostages with Karnas
before. Why is it now your answer is an armed raid? It's my away team
you're sending in there. I think there's something you're not telling
me, and I have a right to know what it is. 
JAMESON: Do you know the background? The Mordanites had some
sophistication, but were still ruled by tribal family units. Karnas's
father was the ruling chief of one of the families. Another tribe had
him assassinated. Karnas seized the passengers of a starliner and held
them hostage, demanding that Starfleet provide him with weapons that
would enable him to defeat his rivals. 
PICARD: That's the official record. 
JAMESON: Officially, the story is that after two other mediators were
murdered, I went in and negotiated with Karnas to bring out the
hostages safely. 
PICARD: Are you saying that's not the truth? 
JAMESON: It wasn't my golden oratory that saved them, Captain. I gave
Karnas the weapons he wanted. 
PICARD: You did what? 
JAMESON: I gave exactly the same weapons to his rivals. My
interpretation of the Prime Directive. Let them solve their problems
with those arms on an equal basis. 
PICARD: And that decision plunged them into forty years of civil war. 
JAMESON: I didn't know that would happen. I thought a minor war. It
would be settled in less than a year. How would I know it would take
four decades? But I falsified the reports to Starfleet, and I lived
with that on my soul, Picard. Sixty-three people came away safe but
millions died on Mordan because I delivered those weapons. 
PICARD: Karnas could have worked for peace during those years instead
of continuing the war. It's not all on your head, Admiral. 
JAMESON: But I started it. I lit the match. Now finally I can vindicate
myself, if only in a small way. I came to negotiate, but that isn't
what Karnas wants. 
PICARD: Revenge. That's why he demanded you when he knew that you were
still alive. 
JAMESON: And I'm not going to give it to him, Picard. I'm going to do
what I should have done the first time. We're taking the hostages out
by force, if necessary. No deals.

[Transporter room]

(Worf, Tasha, Data and Geordi are already on the
pads) 
JAMESON: Prepare to energise, Chief. 
PICARD: Belay that. Admiral, your proper place is on the Bridge. 
JAMESON: I will remind you one more time, Picard, I am the Senior
Mission Commander and I'm leading this team. 
RIKER: Sir? 
PICARD: The Admiral is correct, Number One. He has that right. But I am
the Captain of this ship, and I have a right to accompany him. Riker,
you're in command of the Enterprise. Energise.

[Tunnel]

(It is spacious, good high ceiling with light
streaming through, curved concrete walls) 
JAMESON: Yes, perfect. We are in the M4 tunnel, directly under the
Governor's residence. M-4 is a subsidiary tunnel, but it crosses and
links with several main ones. 
DATA: I am sorry, sir. That does not correspond with the information in
my tricorder, sir.
JAMESON: Your information is incorrect, Commander. I know these tunnels
like the back of my own hand. Keep scanning for signs of human life
forms. Karnas held his hostages in these tunnels before. He'll do it
again. 
(The group head down a tunnel) 
DATA: Captain, the Admiral is definitely incorrect. The tunnel
schematics we have show this to be a dead end. It was sealed off two
years ago. 
PICARD: No doubt you're right, Mister Data. However, forty five years
ago, I'm sure it linked in with the tunnels the Admiral remembers. 
(They arrive at the dead end) 
JAMESON: Damn. 
PICARD: Geordi? 
LAFORGE: This is steelplast, sir. Fairly recent installation. 
JAMESON: This is the most direct route. Set phasers to cut through it. 
(Worf and Tasha cut an opening in the wall) 
TASHA: If you have the coordinates where you think the hostages are,
sir, we could just beam in over there. 
JAMESON: Karnas may not have them in the same place. There's no
substitute, Lieutenant, for personal reconnoitre. 
(He leads them through the hole) 
LAFORGE: Admiral, there's an infrared light signal ahead. Steady beam,
straight across the tunnel, chest high. There's another at waist level.

TASHA: An alarm trigger or 
PICARD: Reset phasers to stun. 
(A phaser beam just misses them) 
PICARD: Take cover! 
(Armed soldiers appear. Every one ducks behind convenient barrels and
suchlike. Tasha gets in front of Picard. Jameson stands exposed) 
WORF: Sir, look out! 
(Worf knocks Jameson out of the way of another blast) 
DATA: Their phasers, sir, set on kill. 
PICARD: Thank you, Mister Data. I have heard the sound before. 
(Tasha takes out two soldiers, then Jameson cries in pain) 
TASHA: Is he hit? 
DATA: No sign of a wound. 
PICARD: Enterprise, this is Picard. Six to beam up, now!

[Bridge]

RIKER: The Admiral? 
PICARD: Sickbay. Not good is a galactic understatement. 
LAFORGE: Sir? Karnas again, sir. On screen. 
KARNAS [on viewscreen]: Enterprise. There has been an armed intrusion
in the tunnels beneath the city. That smells of Jameson. Where is he? 
PICARD: Karnas, this is Picard. I'm sorry to inform you the Admiral is
critically ill. 
KARNAS [on viewscreen]: That is not my concern. Sick or well, you have
ten minutes to beam him down. 
TROI [OC]: Sickbay to Bridge. 
PICARD: Picard. 
TROI [OC]: Doctor Crusher 
[Sickbay]

TROI: Requests your presence in Sickbay
immediately, sir. 
[Bridge]

PICARD: I'm on my way.

