RIKER LAFORGE WORF JAMESON PICARD KARNAS [on viewscreen] TROI TASHA RIKER [OC] CRUSHER DATA TROI [OC]
cut basis residence tribal bed remind going let answer

[Observation lounge]

(It's dark, so we can assume that Jameson is even
younger than last time. Picard enters) 
JAMESON: We'll be at Mordan in three hours. 
PICARD: I couldn't sleep either. 
JAMESON: I never could before a mission. I always wound up in the
observation lounge, staring out at the stars, thinking. 
PICARD: Perhaps in this case, rethinking? 
(Jameson turns so we can see the brown-haired, smooth-skinned twenty
something he has become) 
PICARD: Why is this mission so important to you? Why did you risk your
life to lead it personally? 
JAMESON: I want to save lives, Captain. 
PICARD: Noble sentiments, but that's too easy an answer. You've been
here before. You negotiated a release of the hostages with Karnas
before. Why is it now your answer is an armed raid? It's my away team
you're sending in there. I think there's something you're not telling
me, and I have a right to know what it is. 
JAMESON: Do you know the background? The Mordanites had some
sophistication, but were still ruled by tribal family units. Karnas's
father was the ruling chief of one of the families. Another tribe had
him assassinated. Karnas seized the passengers of a starliner and held
them hostage, demanding that Starfleet provide him with weapons that
would enable him to defeat his rivals. 
PICARD: That's the official record. 
JAMESON: Officially, the story is that after two other mediators were
murdered, I went in and negotiated with Karnas to bring out the
hostages safely. 
PICARD: Are you saying that's not the truth? 
JAMESON: It wasn't my golden oratory that saved them, Captain. I gave
Karnas the weapons he wanted. 
PICARD: You did what? 
JAMESON: I gave exactly the same weapons to his rivals. My
interpretation of the Prime Directive. Let them solve their problems
with those arms on an equal basis. 
PICARD: And that decision plunged them into forty years of civil war. 
JAMESON: I didn't know that would happen. I thought a minor war. It
would be settled in less than a year. How would I know it would take
four decades? But I falsified the reports to Starfleet, and I lived
with that on my soul, Picard. Sixty-three people came away safe but
millions died on Mordan because I delivered those weapons. 
PICARD: Karnas could have worked for peace during those years instead
of continuing the war. It's not all on your head, Admiral. 
JAMESON: But I started it. I lit the match. Now finally I can vindicate
myself, if only in a small way. I came to negotiate, but that isn't
what Karnas wants. 
PICARD: Revenge. That's why he demanded you when he knew that you were
still alive. 
JAMESON: And I'm not going to give it to him, Picard. I'm going to do
what I should have done the first time. We're taking the hostages out
by force, if necessary. No deals.

[Transporter room]

(Worf, Tasha, Data and Geordi are already on the
pads) 
JAMESON: Prepare to energise, Chief. 
PICARD: Belay that. Admiral, your proper place is on the Bridge. 
JAMESON: I will remind you one more time, Picard, I am the Senior
Mission Commander and I'm leading this team. 
RIKER: Sir? 
PICARD: The Admiral is correct, Number One. He has that right. But I am
the Captain of this ship, and I have a right to accompany him. Riker,
you're in command of the Enterprise. Energise.

[Tunnel]

(It is spacious, good high ceiling with light
streaming through, curved concrete walls) 
JAMESON: Yes, perfect. We are in the M4 tunnel, directly under the
Governor's residence. M-4 is a subsidiary tunnel, but it crosses and
links with several main ones. 
DATA: I am sorry, sir. That does not correspond with the information in
my tricorder, sir.
JAMESON: Your information is incorrect, Commander. I know these tunnels
like the back of my own hand. Keep scanning for signs of human life
forms. Karnas held his hostages in these tunnels before. He'll do it
again. 
(The group head down a tunnel) 
DATA: Captain, the Admiral is definitely incorrect. The tunnel
schematics we have show this to be a dead end. It was sealed off two
years ago. 
PICARD: No doubt you're right, Mister Data. However, forty five years
ago, I'm sure it linked in with the tunnels the Admiral remembers. 
(They arrive at the dead end) 
JAMESON: Damn. 
PICARD: Geordi? 
LAFORGE: This is steelplast, sir. Fairly recent installation. 
JAMESON: This is the most direct route. Set phasers to cut through it. 
(Worf and Tasha cut an opening in the wall) 
TASHA: If you have the coordinates where you think the hostages are,
sir, we could just beam in over there. 
JAMESON: Karnas may not have them in the same place. There's no
substitute, Lieutenant, for personal reconnoitre. 
(He leads them through the hole) 
LAFORGE: Admiral, there's an infrared light signal ahead. Steady beam,
straight across the tunnel, chest high. There's another at waist level.

TASHA: An alarm trigger or 
PICARD: Reset phasers to stun. 
(A phaser beam just misses them) 
PICARD: Take cover! 
(Armed soldiers appear. Every one ducks behind convenient barrels and
suchlike. Tasha gets in front of Picard. Jameson stands exposed) 
WORF: Sir, look out! 
(Worf knocks Jameson out of the way of another blast) 
DATA: Their phasers, sir, set on kill. 
PICARD: Thank you, Mister Data. I have heard the sound before. 
(Tasha takes out two soldiers, then Jameson cries in pain) 
TASHA: Is he hit? 
DATA: No sign of a wound. 
PICARD: Enterprise, this is Picard. Six to beam up, now!

[Bridge]

RIKER: The Admiral? 
PICARD: Sickbay. Not good is a galactic understatement. 
LAFORGE: Sir? Karnas again, sir. On screen. 
KARNAS [on viewscreen]: Enterprise. There has been an armed intrusion
in the tunnels beneath the city. That smells of Jameson. Where is he? 
PICARD: Karnas, this is Picard. I'm sorry to inform you the Admiral is
critically ill. 
KARNAS [on viewscreen]: That is not my concern. Sick or well, you have
ten minutes to beam him down. 
TROI [OC]: Sickbay to Bridge. 
PICARD: Picard. 
TROI [OC]: Doctor Crusher 
[Sickbay]

TROI: Requests your presence in Sickbay
immediately, sir. 
[Bridge]

PICARD: I'm on my way.

[Turbolift]

PICARD: Sickbay.

[Sickbay]

PICARD: What is it, Doctor? 
CRUSHER: I think you'd better see for yourself, Captain. 
(Jameson is on a bed, very ill) 
JAMESON: Picard. Picard, I have to get to Karnas. 
CRUSHER: I can't allow him out of my care, Captain. 
JAMESON: It's my last option, Picard. The raid failed. All I have left
to bargain with is myself. 
RIKER [OC]: Bridge to Picard. 
PICARD: Picard here. 
RIKER [OC]: A new message from Karnas, sir. 
[Bridge]

RIKER: If we don't deliver Jameson in five minutes,
one of the hostages will be executed. 
