RIKER JAMESON PICARD KARNAS RIKER [OC] ANNE CRUSHER
golden promises wasting drug prepared say graveyards destroy war

[Bridge]

PICARD: I'm on my way.

[Turbolift]

PICARD: Sickbay.

[Sickbay]

PICARD: What is it, Doctor? 
CRUSHER: I think you'd better see for yourself, Captain. 
(Jameson is on a bed, very ill) 
JAMESON: Picard. Picard, I have to get to Karnas. 
CRUSHER: I can't allow him out of my care, Captain. 
JAMESON: It's my last option, Picard. The raid failed. All I have left
to bargain with is myself. 
RIKER [OC]: Bridge to Picard. 
PICARD: Picard here. 
RIKER [OC]: A new message from Karnas, sir. 
[Bridge]

RIKER: If we don't deliver Jameson in five minutes,
one of the hostages will be executed. 
[Sickbay]

RIKER [OC]: Fifteen minutes after that, another.

[Bridge]

RIKER: He promises the method of execution will be
most painful. 
[Sickbay]

JAMESON: Let me go. If I give myself over to him,
he'll let the hostages go. It's me he wants. 
PICARD: It means almost certain death for you, Admiral. 
JAMESON: My life for how many hostages, Picard? Twenty? Let me go. 
PICARD: Number One, inform Karnas we'll be beaming down in less than
five minutes. 
RIKER [OC]: Did you say we, sir? 
PICARD: You have your orders, Number One. 
[Bridge]

RIKER [OC]: Aye, sir. 
[Karnas's office]

(Picard, Crusher and the young Jameson beam in) 
KARNAS: Who are you? I want Jameson. 
PICARD: Karnas, this is Admiral Mark Jameson. 
KARNAS: This charade will accomplish nothing, Picard. Beam down
Jameson, and the hostages will be freed. Continue this and I promise
you they will die. And you with them. 
JAMESON: Peretor Karnas, you always were a stubborn man. I thought you
wanted me. I'm here. Release the hostages now. 
KARNAS: Peretor was my old title. Why do you call me that? I warn you,
Picard. This trick is going too far. He has been coached for some
devious reason. If this farce does not stopped immediately, you and the
hostages will be put to death. 
(Jameson doubles up in pain) 
PICARD: Doctor! 
KARNAS: I am waiting for an explanation, Captain. 
PICARD: He is the Admiral, Karnas. Before he left on this mission, he
administered an overdose of an alien de-aging drug to himself. He
wanted to face you with strength again, on even terms. This is what the
drug has done to him. 
KARNAS: This story you are telling is unbelievable. Jameson is a man of
more than eighty years, not this. I want that old man, Picard. I want
to show him this world he helped to make. The scars on old soldiers'
bodies. The graveyards of our young dead. The wasted cities we are
still rebuilding. And all of it caused by him. 
PICARD: As I understand it, Karnas, you were the one who demanded the
weapons to avenge your father's death. 
KARNAS: But Jameson didn't give weapons to only us. If he had, we would
have quickly triumphed over our enemies, and there would have been
peace in all these decades. I want him to pay for that, Picard. 
CRUSHER: Captain, I think Mrs. Jameson should beam down now. 
PICARD: Enterprise, this is Picard. Have Mrs. Jameson prepare to beam
down. Karnas, I asked Doctor Crusher to bring with her the visual
records we've made of Admiral Jameson's deterioration. Will you look at
them? 
KARNAS: You're wasting my time, Picard. 
PICARD: Just a few moments. You saw the Admiral on the Enterprise when
he was en route to Mordan? 
KARNAS: Yes. 
PICARD: And you recognised him? 
KARNAS: Yes. 
PICARD: Is this the man you saw? 
(picture of old Jameson on a small screen) 
KARNAS: This is the man I want. 
PICARD: He's here, Karnas. Look. Once he took the compound there was no
way to stop it. 
(Anne beams down and goes straight to Jameson and Crusher) 
PICARD: You'll have to deal with me, Karnas. Whatever you wanted from
Jameson isn't possible any more. And you wanted revenge. You blamed
your war on him, and there's no doubt he had a lot to do with it. But
you had the weapons and you used them. You could have tried for
negotiations for peace on your planet long ago. Instead you chose to
fight. How many of those forty years of civil war are on your head,
Karnas? 
KARNAS: Jameson has to pay for his crimes. I have sworn it to my
people. 
PICARD: Forty five years ago he made the wrong decision. He wanted to
come here to somehow right it, to atone for what he did. Now all he can
do is to give himself up to you. He brought this retribution on
himself. 
KARNAS: No. I don't believe you. You're shielding Jameson on the ship
and you're telling me this tale to save his life. 
JAMESON: Peretor Karnas, there were only two of us in the meeting. You
didn't even trust your lieutenants there. You told me that old Peretor
Sain had ordered your father's assassination. You told me that you
wanted arms to destroy him. Peace wasn't on your mind. All you wanted
was revenge. And I gave you the weapons to do it. 
KARNAS: Jameson told you this. If it is you, show me the scar. 
(Jameson shows his wrist) 
JAMESON: There. The blood cut you gave me to seal our bargain. 
KARNAS: It is you. Somehow it is you. (takes a gun from the wall) Then
die by your own weapon! No. No, my revenge will be in seeing you live
like this. Such pain. 
CRUSHER: The compound he took is forcing his cells and organs to go
further, younger, and they can't take the stress. It's like they're
imploding. And I can't give him anything to stop it. 
PICARD: Can you ease the pain? 
(Crusher shakes her head) 
ANNE: Mark, can you hear me? 
JAMESON: Yes. 
ANNE: I'll always love you. 
JAMESON: Annie with the golden hair. 
ANNE: Flatterer. It's grey now. 
JAMESON: Isee only the gold. 
(He dies in her arms) 
KARNAS: Rest, Jameson. Your long night, and mine, are over. The
hostages will be freed immediately, Captain. I'm prepared to be
cooperative.

