PICARD JESSICA LEECH SECRETARY

[Hill's Waiting room]

(In uniform, Picard goes along a corridor being
washed by a cleaner, listening to music - you came to me from out of
nowhere, you took my heart - and opens a door marked 312 - Dixon Hill
Private Investigator) 
SECRETARY: Very funny, Dix. What'd you do, lose another bet? 
PICARD: I'm sorry, I don't understand. 
SECRETARY: The bellboy suit. Are you moonlighting at the Fremont? 
PICARD: The uniform. It's totally inappropriate. I should have changed.

SECRETARY: Detective Bell, your cop friend, McNary's new partner, was
here nosing around. If he'd have seen you in those threads he'd have
you sent to the funny farm. Mister Leech called twice, and there's a
lady named Bradley waiting in your office. Nice legs. Not you. Her. Got
a hot date with my fella. See you in the morning. 
(She leaves, laughing. Picard opens the door to his inner office and we
go into Maltese Falcon territory) 
PICARD: I lost a bet. 
JESSICA: Oh well, at least you're ready for Halloween. 
PICARD: Halloween? 
JESSICA: I need your help, Mister Hill. Someone is trying to kill me.

Captain's personal log. I'm delighted with how the
Holodeck has created the fictional world of Dixon Hill, the twentieth
century detective who has been a hero of mine since childhood. The
illusion is flawless. The characters I meet are generated by the
computer, of course, yet they feel real, they seem real in every way. 
[Hill's office]

JESSICA: I'm not sure who wants me dead. My
husband, my stepdaughter. 
PICARD: Or a lover, perhaps? 
JESSICA: Perhaps. Or perhaps it's Cyrus Redblock. I need you to find
out. Name your fee. 
PICARD: Twenty dollars a day, plus expenses. 
JESSICA: Agreed. 
PICARD: I haven't said yes yet. 
JESSICA: Oh, you'll say yes, Mister Hill. (she kisses him) If it is
Redblock, he must think I've got what he's looking for. But believe me,
I don't. 
PICARD: I'll take your word for it. 
JESSICA: Here's a C-note in advance. Consider it a retainer. (she tucks
it in his collar) And next time, wear a suit. Au revoir. 
(She takes one of his calling cards and leaves. Picard looks out of the
window) 
PICARD: Remarkable. Exit. 
(He is just leaving the holodeck when there is a knock on the office
door)
PICARD: You'll have to call again. I'm just leaving. I'm not dressed
properly. I'll be back. 
(Picard leaves, the exit vanishes and the visitor enters the
room)
LEECH: (Peter Lorre accent) Mister Hill? Where are you? 
