RIKER LAFORGE WORF TASHA PICARD WESLEY LORE CRUSHER
training confirm mind near send large attack overtaking er

[Bridge]

CRUSHER: Wes, tell me again how Data said he
immobilised Lore.
WESLEY: He told me he just turned him off, Mom, er, Doctor.
(Lore as Data enters) 
CRUSHER: Question, Mister Data. Did you or did you not swear me to
secrecy about your off switch?
LORE: A change of mind, Doctor. If I cannot trust the bridge crew, whom
can I?
LAFORGE: Captain, I'm picking up a bogey coming in on a five o'clock
tangent.
TASHA: It's transmitting no ID signal, Captain.
RIKER: Set main viewer on that tangent.
PICARD: Shields up. Go to Yellow Alert. Transmit friendly greetings,
all languages, all frequencies.
(The Crystal Entity whooshes towards them) 
RIKER: I can't believe anything's overtaking us this fast.
LORE: Beautiful, isn't it?
RIKER: I recognise it, sir. It's the crystal image Lore described. 
CRUSHER: My God. 
(The Enterprise is dwarfed by the Entity) 
TASHA: Still no ID being transmitted, sir. Also no answer to our
inquiries.
(Geordi enters, or re-enters. Some time must have passed) 
PICARD: Did you get a direct look at it?
LAFORGE: It's like a giant snow flake crystal, but much more complex.
The entire electromagnetic spectrum seems to play about inside it, but
I haven't the slightest idea what it is, sir.
PICARD: Thank you, Lieutenant. Data, is there anything else that Lore
can tell us about it, it may be important. Can you control him enough
to question him?
LORE: I will have to examine him to know, sir.
WESLEY: Captain, recommend that you do not let him roam the ship freely.
PICARD: Ensign.
LORE: Wesley is only showing himself to be alert and responsible.
Something to encourage. Come, you can watch everything I do.
WESLEY: Not if I have a choice.
PICARD: That is enough, Ensign. When addressing a senior officer.
RIKER: I've guided his training, sir, I'm the one at fault. You will
show the proper respect. I will accompany you down there to make
certain of it. With your approval, of course, sir.

[Data's Quarters]

LORE: Be careful of Lore. Good. He is still
unconscious. Notice the same twitch, even though he is unconscious?
Stay back. We may have problems if he senses someone else is near.
(flicks Data's switch on and off) Lore, I have a few questions to ask
you. 
LORE: Lore, it is Data. He senses you. I cannot control him if you
stay. Please! I will record everything he says. 
RIKER: You will bring it to the Bridge, immediately. 
(Riker and Wesley leave) 
LORE: And you want to be as stupid as them, dear brother? 
(Lore kicks Data in the head, opening a flap of skin)

[Bridge]

PICARD: Well, Number One?
RIKER: It was Lore, sir. Same facial twitches that we've seen all
along. Lying unconscious on the floor exactly as Data had described.
But then it suddenly became violent, apparently sensing that Wesley and
I were present. 
WESLEY: Or is it Lore pretending to be Data and faking it all?
PICARD: I asked for Commander Riker's report, Acting Ensign Crusher.
And since it now seems clear that you are unable to function within the
limits of that appointment
LAFORGE: Captain!
(The entity is starting to send rays their way) 
TASHA: Deflector shields holding, sir.
PICARD: Bring photon torpedoes to ready. Main phasers to ready. Go to
Red Alert, please.
(Data/Lore enters) 
WORF: Weapons now ready, sir. 
LORE: No, Captain, let me talk to it. 
PICARD: You didn't say you could do that. (the ship shakes)
Affirmative. Talk to it.
LORE: Open hailing frequencies. Crystal form, I identify myself as
Data, advising you to stop your attack. The humans here are powerful,
capable of injuring or even destroying you. 
(The attack stops) 
LAFORGE: Now I call that communicating.
LORE: Suggest moving fast to confirm what I told it, sir. Permission to
use the large transporter in cargo room three. There I can beam up some
living pattern, perhaps a large tree.
RIKER: Which you'll beam over next to the entity
LORE: That is correct, Riker. Our ship's phasers will then blast and
disintegrate it, proving we are dangerous.
PICARD: Make it so. 
LORE: Sir?
PICARD: Do it. 
(Lore leaves) 
WESLEY: Sir, I know this may finish me as an Acting Ensign, but 
PICARD: Shut up, Wesley! Lieutenant, pick a good security team, let me
know what he does.
TASHA: Aye, sir. 
CRUSHER: Shut up, Wesley?
PICARD: Doctor. 
WESLEY: And since I am finished here, sir, may I point out that 
CRUSHER: Shut up, Wesley!
WESLEY: That everything that I have said would have been listened to if
it came from an adult officer. Request permission to return to my
quarters, sir.
PICARD: Agreed. Doctor, go with him.
CRUSHER: You're putting me off the Bridge?
PICARD: I'm asking that you keep an eye on your son during all of this,
Doctor.

