RIKER LAFORGE PICARD ARGYLE CRUSHER [OC] LORE CRUSHER DATA
goes machine turn connection amusing uncomfortable press close help

[Observation Lounge]

PICARD: Bringing it up here was the right thing to
do, Number One. We were just saying, Data, that if your duplicate
functions, it might answer a lot of questions.
RIKER: Does it appear to have all your parts?
DATA: Completely, sir.
LAFORGE: Will we know how to turn it on?
PICARD: All right, all right. Legitimate questions about any of this
need not be asked apologetically. You feel uncomfortable about aspects
of your duplicate, Data. We feel uncomfortable too, and for no logical
reason. If it feels awkward to be reminded that Data is a machine, just
remember that we are merely a different variety of machine. In our
case, electrochemical in nature. Let's begin to handle this as we would
do anything else.
LAFORGE: Agreed, Captain.
PICARD: Let's begin with you, Data.
DATA: Well, sir, a good starting point may be, why was I given human
form?
LAFORGE: Well, to make it easier for humans to relate to you. Had to
be. But your designer may have had something else to prove as well.
PICARD: That human-shaped robots need not be clumsy or limited. You
certainly operate as well as we do, Data 
DATA: Better in some ways, sir. 
RIKER: You might want to have a look at this, Captain. Could be a link
to the disappearance of the colonists. It was displayed in the lab, no
doubt by proud parents. It could be just a child's imagination, but
several children did similar drawings.
CRUSHER [OC]: Doctor Crusher to Captain. At this point, sir, we very
much need Mister Data's help.
PICARD: He's on his way, Doctor.

[Laboratory]

(While technobabbnle goes on over the new android,
Data is talking quietly with Crusher) 
DATA: Press your fingers there, Doctor. (the small of his back) There.
It operates almost as a switch.
CRUSHER: And these small projections?
DATA: An android alarm clock. Is that amusing? They time how long I
remain unconscious.
ARGYLE: Are you certain about us using these heating devices, Data?
DATA: I will feel nothing at all.
ARGYLE: Marvellous. It should all be a lot simpler once we can see how
your circuitry's connected.
CRUSHER: I won't mention it to anyone. You have my word.
DATA: If you had an off switch Doctor, would you not keep it secret?
CRUSHER: I guess I would.

[Sickbay]

(Data and his twin are lying on biobeds, as the
Argyle and Crusher gaze at Data's magnified innards) 
ARGYLE: Notice the micro-circuitry here and here. And another
fibroid-like connection here.
CRUSHER: Let's close up. 
(Later, Riker and Picard enter) 
ARGYLE: It seemed to go well, thanks to a look inside Mister Data. But
there have been no signs of consciousness, yet
RIKER: It certainly is a good match for Data, sir.
PICARD: Do you think so, really? I wonder which of them was made first?
LORE: He was. But they found him imperfect and I was made to replace
him. (he twitches) You may call me Lore.

