TASHA RIKER DATA LAFORGE

[Planet surface]

(Riker, Data, Tasha, Worf and Geordi beam down) 
TASHA: Recording signal locked onto the Enterprise, sir.
RIKER: This looks like anything but farmland.
LAFORGE: Agreed, sir. The soil appears almost completely lifeless.
RIKER: This is the exact position listed in the Tripoli log. Do you
recognise anything, Data?
DATA: The land contours are familiar, sir. Topographically, this is the
correct area.
LAFORGE: This once was rich farmland. I'd say something like twenty to
thirty years ago.
DATA: I was discovered twenty six years ago.
LAFORGE: Commander, I'd say that everything on this planet was either
dead or dying at the time Data was found.
DATA: I was found twenty metres in that direction, sir.
(They walk down steps cut into the rock, to a cave) 
TASHA: Data, any idea at all why you were given the colonists' memories?
DATA: I have always felt that it was done hurriedly, but I know little
more. Here, sir. This is where the cruiser's landing party found the
signal device that had led them here. And they found me lying there,
sir.
(He indicates a platform, obviously man-made, on a rock shelf) 
TASHA: You were just lying out there in the open? No identity record,
no instructions?
DATA: Only a layer of dust. 
RIKER: What's the first thing you remember, Data?
DATA: Opening my eyes. Looking into the eyes of the Tripoli landing
party. They believed that the signal device sensed their presence and
activated me.
TASHA: Then this very spot was your birthplace.
LAFORGE: Commander, I think I've got this place figured out here. This
was really very cleverly done to make this look like a natural hollow
in the terrain here. There are signs of it being constructed in a hurry
as if to hide something here.
DATA: Yes, that was it, Geordi. This wakens a memory remnant of how the
colonists hoped to remain hidden, but their fear of being discovered
led to their storing information in me.
LAFORGE: Yeah, thought so. 
(He has found the catch to the secret door. The back of the cave swings
open to reveal a passageway into)

[Underground Complex]

(Riker turns the lights on) 
TASHA: No life readings in here either, sir. 
(They walk on until they come to a circular door, which opens for them)

[Laboratory]

(The lights come on. The apparatus is still
functioning. Lasers and indicators are flashing and blinking) 
RIKER: The colony laboratory. Extremely well equipped. Does this stir
any memories, Data?
DATA: Only a vague impression of some of my functions being tested here.
(There are crude pictures on a notice board of a spiky object in the
sky) 
RIKER: Posted by proud parents? 
DATA: It depicts something that feels familiar, sir. And dangerous. But
I have no idea what it represents. And that is all. Except for an
impression of this being a Doctor Soong's work area.
RIKER: Who? You don't mean Doctor Noonien Soong?
DATA: He was called that here, but his memories indicate he travelled
here under a different name.
LAFORGE: Doctor Noonien Soong, my friend, happens to have been Earth's
foremost robotics scientist. 
TASHA: Until he tried to make Asimov's dream of a positronic brain come
true.
RIKER: A positronic brain. He promised so much. And then when he failed
completely, Doctor Soong disappeared. Now we know he went somewhere
else to try a second time. Data, Geordi, we'll get a close look at this
lab. You and Lieutenant Worf reconnoitre where these corridors lead.
TASHA: Aye, sir. 
(Tasha and Work leave) 
(Riker presses a button and a cover slides back to reveal a transparent
torso and face mask. Data puts the mask over his own face)
LAFORGE: Data, it's you.
RIKER: An epidermal mold. Made to give your exterior the desired finish.
TASHA [OC]: Lieutenant Yar to Commander Riker.
RIKER: Come in, Lieutenant.
TASHA [OC]: Sir, this installation is big enough to hold hundreds of
people. But all that's here now is empty beds.
RIKER: Thank you, Lieutenant. Complete your record scans and report
back here.
LAFORGE: Commander Riker, looks like some sort of storage area.
(Data opens the new door and dry ice pours out before revealing another
android, in pieces) 
RIKER: How many more Datas are there?
LAFORGE: Looks like just these two. I mean, that and the real Data.
DATA: Commander, can this be another me? Or possibly my brother?
RIKER: I honestly don't know, Data.
DATA: He needs assembling.
RIKER: He? Data, we don't know that this can become alive.
DATA: It is very important for me to know that, sir. I never dreamed it
was possible I might find some link with some form like my own.
RIKER: Understood. We'll take it back to the ship with us.

Captain's log, Stardate 41242.45. Despite having
only a few hours in which to explore Data's home planet we've
discovered something which may explain Data's beginnings, if we can
properly assemble and communicate with what we've found.

