LORE WESLEY RIKER DATA WORF
gratitude body discreetly look pours suggest communicate facial lesson

[Data's Quarters]

(Lore pours out two glasses of champagne, and adds
a substance to one of them. Data enters) 
LORE: Lesson number one in becoming more human. You must observe all
human customs.
DATA: Champagne?
LORE: An ancient ritual still practiced when they celebrate events of
importance. My brother, I toast our discovery of each other. May it
fill our lives with new meaning.
(Data drinks from the doctored glass) 
DATA: I have some doubts about the value of human customs (feels an
effect) in this. My brother! 
LORE: And let us toast also Doctor Soong, who gave me the full richness
of human needs and ambitions. A perfect match for my mind, my body. 
(Data collapses) 
LORE: And let us toast also the great Crystal Entity with whom I
learned to communicate. Before Doctor Soong disassembled me, I earned
its gratitude by revealing the way to the colonists. Can you image its
gratitude when I give it the life on this vessel?

[Bridge]

WORF: This is strange, sir. I show Commander Data
transmitting on a subspace channel.
RIKER: I know Data's been doing considerable research on Doctor Soong's
background. Let's be sure. Wesley, would you look in on Commander Data?
Discreetly?
WESLEY: Yes sir!

[Data's Quarters]

(Obviously, Lore is now impersonating Data and has
donned his uniform) 
LORE: Crystal Entity. Upon arriving here you can identify me as the
machine named Data. (door bell) End of message. Come in, please. 
(Wesley enters and sees Lore, or rather Data in Lore's overall, on the
floor) 
LORE: Glad you are here, Wesley. Lore suddenly attacked me and I had to
turn him off.
WESLEY: Why did he do that, Data?
LORE: He discovered we have been using sensors to follow what he does.
(twitch) I practiced his facial tic. Do I have it right?
WESLEY: I'd suggest you forget imitating him. If you'd said we've been
using the sensors, instead of we have, I might have suspected you were
Lore.
LORE: Yes. I do use language more formally than Lore. Please inform the
Captain I will come up to the Bridge and report on this.
WESLEY: Aye, sir. 
(Wesley leaves, and Lore uses a laser to recreate his tic on Data, and
cure his own)

