RIKER LAFORGE TASHA PICARD WESLEY DATA
bridge right showing sweet away strange yes ahh instructions

[Data's Quarters]

DATA: Aah, ahh, ahh 
(Wesley enters) 
WESLEY: Data! 
DATA: Choo! 
WESLEY: What are you doing?
DATA: Sneezing.
WESLEY: Have you got a cold?
DATA: A cold what?
WESLEY: It's a disease my mom says people used to get.
DATA: Ah. But humans still sneeze for other reasons and I cannot seem
to do it right.
WESLEY: How can you be practicing something like sneezing when we're
arriving at your home planet for the first time? Aren't you interested
in that?
DATA: More than interested. Fascinated. One might say agog. But I also
find sneezing interesting. 
WESLEY: Captain Picard wishes to see you on the Bridge. 
[Bridge]

TASHA: Captain, confirming class M reading there.
But the sensors aren't showing any life readings. Not even vegetation.
PICARD: Strange. The cruiser that found Data reported farmlands here.
(Data and Wesley enter) 
RIKER: Do you want to take her into orbit, Data?
DATA: No, thank you, sir.
PICARD: Continue on into close parking orbit.
LAFORGE: Aye, sir.
DATA: I could say home sweet home, sir, if I understood how the word
sweet applies.
PICARD: It usually refers to the memories.
RIKER: It usually refers to one's own memories, Captain. Do the
memories you were given include farms, Data?
DATA: Affirmative, sir. But the colony's principal interest was science.
TASHA: Data, I can't understand how you can hold the memories of four
hundred and eleven people. If that means every experience, every day of
their life?
DATA: It does not, unfortunately. It means only the knowledge they had
accumulated. Actually, I am quite deficient in some basic human
information. Sneezing, for example.
PICARD: Sneezing?
LAFORGE: Approaching close parking orbit, sir.
PICARD: Assemble your away party, Commander. This must be an exciting
moment for you, Mister Data. I'm tempted to lead the away team myself,
except that my First Officer would object.
RIKER: How would Starfleet judge me if I didn't? An entire Earth colony
did disappear down there.
PICARD: You see? 
LAFORGE: Now in close parking orbit, sir.
PICARD: Mister Data, welcome home.

First Officer's log, stardate 4124.5. We have found
Data's home to be a completely dead world made out of lifeless
vegetation. No insects, not even soil bacteria. What is it that could
kill everything on an entire planet? 
[Planet surface]

(Riker, Data, Tasha, Worf and Geordi beam down) 
TASHA: Recording signal locked onto the Enterprise, sir.
RIKER: This looks like anything but farmland.
LAFORGE: Agreed, sir. The soil appears almost completely lifeless.
RIKER: This is the exact position listed in the Tripoli log. Do you
recognise anything, Data?
DATA: The land contours are familiar, sir. Topographically, this is the
correct area.
LAFORGE: This once was rich farmland. I'd say something like twenty to
thirty years ago.
DATA: I was discovered twenty six years ago.
LAFORGE: Commander, I'd say that everything on this planet was either
dead or dying at the time Data was found.
DATA: I was found twenty metres in that direction, sir.
(They walk down steps cut into the rock, to a cave) 
TASHA: Data, any idea at all why you were given the colonists' memories?
DATA: I have always felt that it was done hurriedly, but I know little
more. Here, sir. This is where the cruiser's landing party found the
signal device that had led them here. And they found me lying there,
sir.
(He indicates a platform, obviously man-made, on a rock shelf) 
TASHA: You were just lying out there in the open? No identity record,
no instructions?
DATA: Only a layer of dust. 
RIKER: What's the first thing you remember, Data?
DATA: Opening my eyes. Looking into the eyes of the Tripoli landing
party. They believed that the signal device sensed their presence and
activated me.
TASHA: Then this very spot was your birthplace.
LAFORGE: Commander, I think I've got this place figured out here. This
was really very cleverly done to make this look like a natural hollow
in the terrain here. There are signs of it being constructed in a hurry
as if to hide something here.
DATA: Yes, that was it, Geordi. This wakens a memory remnant of how the
colonists hoped to remain hidden, but their fear of being discovered
led to their storing information in me.
LAFORGE: Yeah, thought so. 
(He has found the catch to the secret door. The back of the cave swings
open to reveal a passageway into)

