RIKER PICARD ARGYLE LORE CRUSHER DATA

[Laboratory]

(While technobabbnle goes on over the new android,
Data is talking quietly with Crusher) 
DATA: Press your fingers there, Doctor. (the small of his back) There.
It operates almost as a switch.
CRUSHER: And these small projections?
DATA: An android alarm clock. Is that amusing? They time how long I
remain unconscious.
ARGYLE: Are you certain about us using these heating devices, Data?
DATA: I will feel nothing at all.
ARGYLE: Marvellous. It should all be a lot simpler once we can see how
your circuitry's connected.
CRUSHER: I won't mention it to anyone. You have my word.
DATA: If you had an off switch Doctor, would you not keep it secret?
CRUSHER: I guess I would.

[Sickbay]

(Data and his twin are lying on biobeds, as the
Argyle and Crusher gaze at Data's magnified innards) 
ARGYLE: Notice the micro-circuitry here and here. And another
fibroid-like connection here.
CRUSHER: Let's close up. 
(Later, Riker and Picard enter) 
ARGYLE: It seemed to go well, thanks to a look inside Mister Data. But
there have been no signs of consciousness, yet
RIKER: It certainly is a good match for Data, sir.
PICARD: Do you think so, really? I wonder which of them was made first?
LORE: He was. But they found him imperfect and I was made to replace
him. (he twitches) You may call me Lore.

[Ready Room]

PICARD: I'm also a bit troubled by it describing
you as imperfect.
DATA: Human language gives me difficulty too, sir. Imperfect could mean
I lack certain abilities he possesses.
PICARD: I wonder. But the point of this is, whether you and it have
approximately the same capabilities.
DATA: We do, sir, and your referring to him as an it suggests that I,
too, fit into the category of a thing.
PICARD: I see your point. My apologies.
DATA: Gladly accepted, sir. As for Lore's abilities, his use of syntax
and grammar suggests he was given human memories similar to my own.
PICARD: And you have about equal physical strength and mental abilities?
DATA: I believe so, sir.
PICARD: Which requires I now ask you a very serious question. Since the
two of you are closely related to each other.
DATA: The answer, sir, is that my loyalty is to you and Starfleet.
Completely.
PICARD: Thank you, Commander. I was certain of that.

