RIKER LAFORGE TASHA ARGYLE CRUSHER DATA

[Underground Complex]

(Riker turns the lights on) 
TASHA: No life readings in here either, sir. 
(They walk on until they come to a circular door, which opens for them)

[Laboratory]

(The lights come on. The apparatus is still
functioning. Lasers and indicators are flashing and blinking) 
RIKER: The colony laboratory. Extremely well equipped. Does this stir
any memories, Data?
DATA: Only a vague impression of some of my functions being tested here.
(There are crude pictures on a notice board of a spiky object in the
sky) 
RIKER: Posted by proud parents? 
DATA: It depicts something that feels familiar, sir. And dangerous. But
I have no idea what it represents. And that is all. Except for an
impression of this being a Doctor Soong's work area.
RIKER: Who? You don't mean Doctor Noonien Soong?
DATA: He was called that here, but his memories indicate he travelled
here under a different name.
LAFORGE: Doctor Noonien Soong, my friend, happens to have been Earth's
foremost robotics scientist. 
TASHA: Until he tried to make Asimov's dream of a positronic brain come
true.
RIKER: A positronic brain. He promised so much. And then when he failed
completely, Doctor Soong disappeared. Now we know he went somewhere
else to try a second time. Data, Geordi, we'll get a close look at this
lab. You and Lieutenant Worf reconnoitre where these corridors lead.
TASHA: Aye, sir. 
(Tasha and Work leave) 
(Riker presses a button and a cover slides back to reveal a transparent
torso and face mask. Data puts the mask over his own face)
LAFORGE: Data, it's you.
RIKER: An epidermal mold. Made to give your exterior the desired finish.
TASHA [OC]: Lieutenant Yar to Commander Riker.
RIKER: Come in, Lieutenant.
TASHA [OC]: Sir, this installation is big enough to hold hundreds of
people. But all that's here now is empty beds.
RIKER: Thank you, Lieutenant. Complete your record scans and report
back here.
LAFORGE: Commander Riker, looks like some sort of storage area.
(Data opens the new door and dry ice pours out before revealing another
android, in pieces) 
RIKER: How many more Datas are there?
LAFORGE: Looks like just these two. I mean, that and the real Data.
DATA: Commander, can this be another me? Or possibly my brother?
RIKER: I honestly don't know, Data.
DATA: He needs assembling.
RIKER: He? Data, we don't know that this can become alive.
DATA: It is very important for me to know that, sir. I never dreamed it
was possible I might find some link with some form like my own.
RIKER: Understood. We'll take it back to the ship with us.

Captain's log, Stardate 41242.45. Despite having
only a few hours in which to explore Data's home planet we've
discovered something which may explain Data's beginnings, if we can
properly assemble and communicate with what we've found.

[Laboratory]

(A mass of people are working on putting the pieces
together, while Data looks on) 
CRUSHER: Signal from the Captain. They need you at the debriefing.
DATA: I've been most anxious to hear the Chief Engineer's opinion,
Mister Argyle. Do you believe he can be made to function?
ARGYLE: It appears to include all the components in your body. Not that
we fully understand your construction either.
CRUSHER: We have our top specialists working on its construction,
Mister Data.
ARGYLE: Just one thing. Without disassembling you, of course, if we
should need more
CRUSHER: If we should need to compare this with the way you're put
together? 
(Data nods)

