RIKER WORF TASHA PICARD LORE CRUSHER DATA
body gratitude envious varied worf assumed compound millions knowledge

[Data's Quarters]

(Data sits at a computer terminal) 
LORE: What information are you requesting?
DATA: Everything available on a Doctor Noonien Soong.
LORE: Good old Often Wrong Soong. A joke, brother. Actually, he was a
genius by human standards.
DATA: But he had destroyed his own reputation by making what seemed
wild promises about his positronic brain design, almost all of which
failed.
LORE: Promises he later proved to be true. Which made you and me
possible, brother. Our beloved father. Will I soon have a uniform like
that, brother?
DATA: If you get one the way I did, Lore, it will mean four years at
the Academy, another three as ensign, ten or twelve on varied space
duty in the lieutenant grades.
LORE: A system designed to compensate for limited human ability. And
you, brother, are beginning to think as a human. You and I are
completely different from them. Are you truly satisfied with the
knowledge and memory of a few hundred human colonists? Suppose it could
reflect thousands? Or millions? Or the knowledge of hundreds of
millions of life forms of every kind?
DATA: How?
LORE: We will discuss that in time.
DATA: And will we also discuss, Lore, which of us was constructed first?
LORE: It would be foolish to underestimate you, brother. Yes, I lied
when I said you were made first, but with good reason. Doctor Soong
made me perfect in his first attempt. But he made me so completely
human the colonists became envious of me. 
DATA: You lived with the colonists?
LORE: Until they petitioned Soong to make a more comfortable, less
perfect android. In other words, you, brother. Haven't you noticed how
easily I handle human speech? I use their contractions. For example, I
say can't or isn't, and you say cannot or is not. (sings) I say tomato,
you say tomahto. I say potato, you say potahto. (laughs) A very old
joke. But then you also have trouble with their humour. Am I right?
DATA: Quite true. I keep trying to be more human, and keep failing. 
LORE: Do you realise, brother, I can help you become more human?
DATA: And do you realise, Lore, that I am obligated to report all of
this to our ship's Captain?
LORE: I assumed as much when I began studying you. May I use this to
learn more of this vessel and its customs?
DATA: Use it also to describe for the Captain the time you spent among
the colonists. Including everything you know about what happened to
them.
LORE: I promise a report of great detail and accuracy.
DATA: Thank you, Lore. I now have duties to perform. Unless of course,
you need something more.
LORE: I have more than I dreamed possible, brother. 
(And Lore starts accessing ship's records at great speed from terminal
40271)

Captain's log, stardate 41242.5. Thanks to Lore's
report, we now know what happened to the colonists. Beginning with a
child's drawing, enhanced by Lore's description, our computer has
constructed the image of a great crystalline entity which feeds on
life, insatiably ravenous for the life force found in living forms,
capable of stripping all life from an entire world.

[Bridge]

TASHA: But how did Data escape that thing? Or Lore?
RIKER: Lore had been disassembled. He explained it as jealousy from the
colonists. And Data wasn't yet alive at that time.
PICARD: Which explains why Data could be left outside in no danger from
that creature. Whatever happened to the colonists, he would be found by
the first Starfleet crew that responded to the signal he transmitted.
TASHA: By which Doctor Soong left proof behind that his experiment did
work.
RIKER: Captain, how believable do you find that crystal thing?
PICARD: With so little of even our galaxy explored, I find it at least
possible.
TASHA: Data, are you expecting Lore to come up here? He left your
quarters some time ago.
DATA: To go?
TASHA: My turbo-sensors say he went to deck four. Worf?
WORF: Where he examined some micro-miniature work tools, and some fine
grind quadratanium ?
DATA: Which is used in our construction. That particular compound is no
more suspicious, sir, than a human looking for an antiseptic or an
ointment. Nevertheless, I should check it out.
CRUSHER: You're watching everything he does, Data? Is that the act of a
brother?
PICARD: It's the act of a Starfleet officer obeying his Captain, Doctor.
(Data leaves) 
TASHA: Captain? Speaking strictly as Security Chief, how much can you
trust Data now?
PICARD: I trust him completely. But everyone should also realise that
that was a necessary and legitimate security question.
TASHA: Thank you, sir.

[Data's Quarters]

(Lore pours out two glasses of champagne, and adds
a substance to one of them. Data enters) 
LORE: Lesson number one in becoming more human. You must observe all
human customs.
DATA: Champagne?
LORE: An ancient ritual still practiced when they celebrate events of
importance. My brother, I toast our discovery of each other. May it
fill our lives with new meaning.
(Data drinks from the doctored glass) 
DATA: I have some doubts about the value of human customs (feels an
effect) in this. My brother! 
LORE: And let us toast also Doctor Soong, who gave me the full richness
of human needs and ambitions. A perfect match for my mind, my body. 
(Data collapses) 
LORE: And let us toast also the great Crystal Entity with whom I
learned to communicate. Before Doctor Soong disassembled me, I earned
its gratitude by revealing the way to the colonists. Can you image its
gratitude when I give it the life on this vessel?

