RIKER LAFORGE WORF WESLEY LORE DATA

[Bridge]

(Lore is in a brown overall, getting an
introduction to ship's operations) 
LAFORGE: And helm control is here, with the ship's heading given in
measurements we call degrees. Three hundred and sixty of them in a full
circle this way.
LORE: Then you say mark. 
LAFORGE: On the nose.
WESLEY: Which separates it from another full three hundred and sixty
degree circle this way on a right angle to this one.
LORE: So by ordering a heading so many degrees this way and so many
this way, the ship can travel in any direction. All three dimensions. 
RIKER: And the square of the hypotenuse of a right triangle
LORE: Is equal to the sum of the square of the other two. Two
something. Which I once heard, but never understood.
DATA: All of which you will learn more about when the Captain has
approved your being on the Bridge.
LORE: Have I committed an offence?
WESLEY: You will find that there are many rules on starships that must
be learnt.
LORE: You're very clever, Wesley. I now have duties to perform. Correct?
WORF: Were you ever this anxious to please, Data?
DATA: Never. I judge Lore to be superior in that desire.
LORE: Because I was designed to be so human, my brother, I enjoy
pleasing humans.
LAFORGE: My brother. That has a nice sound to it, Data.
DATA: You consider it important to please humans?
LORE: It's not important?
DATA: There are many things of importance. Some more than others.

[Corridor]

DATA: Do you realise that Commander Riker's
hypotenuse question tricked you into showing your knowledge was greater
than you were indicating?
LORE: He didn't seem that clever. I'll be more careful.
DATA: You tend to underestimate humans, my brother. Praising young
Wesley on the helm, for example
LORE: A child!
DATA: He has a child's body, but we have found him to be much more.
LORE: Thank you for that information, too. You do care about how I
perform. I pledge to be worthy of your teaching, my brother. Try not to
be jealous of my abilities. 
[Data's Quarters]

(Data sits at a computer terminal) 
LORE: What information are you requesting?
DATA: Everything available on a Doctor Noonien Soong.
LORE: Good old Often Wrong Soong. A joke, brother. Actually, he was a
genius by human standards.
DATA: But he had destroyed his own reputation by making what seemed
wild promises about his positronic brain design, almost all of which
failed.
LORE: Promises he later proved to be true. Which made you and me
possible, brother. Our beloved father. Will I soon have a uniform like
that, brother?
DATA: If you get one the way I did, Lore, it will mean four years at
the Academy, another three as ensign, ten or twelve on varied space
duty in the lieutenant grades.
LORE: A system designed to compensate for limited human ability. And
you, brother, are beginning to think as a human. You and I are
completely different from them. Are you truly satisfied with the
knowledge and memory of a few hundred human colonists? Suppose it could
reflect thousands? Or millions? Or the knowledge of hundreds of
millions of life forms of every kind?
DATA: How?
LORE: We will discuss that in time.
DATA: And will we also discuss, Lore, which of us was constructed first?
LORE: It would be foolish to underestimate you, brother. Yes, I lied
when I said you were made first, but with good reason. Doctor Soong
made me perfect in his first attempt. But he made me so completely
human the colonists became envious of me. 
DATA: You lived with the colonists?
LORE: Until they petitioned Soong to make a more comfortable, less
perfect android. In other words, you, brother. Haven't you noticed how
easily I handle human speech? I use their contractions. For example, I
say can't or isn't, and you say cannot or is not. (sings) I say tomato,
you say tomahto. I say potato, you say potahto. (laughs) A very old
joke. But then you also have trouble with their humour. Am I right?
DATA: Quite true. I keep trying to be more human, and keep failing. 
LORE: Do you realise, brother, I can help you become more human?
DATA: And do you realise, Lore, that I am obligated to report all of
this to our ship's Captain?
LORE: I assumed as much when I began studying you. May I use this to
learn more of this vessel and its customs?
DATA: Use it also to describe for the Captain the time you spent among
the colonists. Including everything you know about what happened to
them.
LORE: I promise a report of great detail and accuracy.
DATA: Thank you, Lore. I now have duties to perform. Unless of course,
you need something more.
LORE: I have more than I dreamed possible, brother. 
(And Lore starts accessing ship's records at great speed from terminal
40271)

Captain's log, stardate 41242.5. Thanks to Lore's
report, we now know what happened to the colonists. Beginning with a
child's drawing, enhanced by Lore's description, our computer has
constructed the image of a great crystalline entity which feeds on
life, insatiably ravenous for the life force found in living forms,
capable of stripping all life from an entire world.

