RIKER LAFORGE WORF PICARD ARGYLE WESLEY LORE CRUSHER DATA

[Sickbay]

(Data and his twin are lying on biobeds, as the
Argyle and Crusher gaze at Data's magnified innards) 
ARGYLE: Notice the micro-circuitry here and here. And another
fibroid-like connection here.
CRUSHER: Let's close up. 
(Later, Riker and Picard enter) 
ARGYLE: It seemed to go well, thanks to a look inside Mister Data. But
there have been no signs of consciousness, yet
RIKER: It certainly is a good match for Data, sir.
PICARD: Do you think so, really? I wonder which of them was made first?
LORE: He was. But they found him imperfect and I was made to replace
him. (he twitches) You may call me Lore.

[Ready Room]

PICARD: I'm also a bit troubled by it describing
you as imperfect.
DATA: Human language gives me difficulty too, sir. Imperfect could mean
I lack certain abilities he possesses.
PICARD: I wonder. But the point of this is, whether you and it have
approximately the same capabilities.
DATA: We do, sir, and your referring to him as an it suggests that I,
too, fit into the category of a thing.
PICARD: I see your point. My apologies.
DATA: Gladly accepted, sir. As for Lore's abilities, his use of syntax
and grammar suggests he was given human memories similar to my own.
PICARD: And you have about equal physical strength and mental abilities?
DATA: I believe so, sir.
PICARD: Which requires I now ask you a very serious question. Since the
two of you are closely related to each other.
DATA: The answer, sir, is that my loyalty is to you and Starfleet.
Completely.
PICARD: Thank you, Commander. I was certain of that.

[Bridge]

(Lore is in a brown overall, getting an
introduction to ship's operations) 
LAFORGE: And helm control is here, with the ship's heading given in
measurements we call degrees. Three hundred and sixty of them in a full
circle this way.
LORE: Then you say mark. 
LAFORGE: On the nose.
WESLEY: Which separates it from another full three hundred and sixty
degree circle this way on a right angle to this one.
LORE: So by ordering a heading so many degrees this way and so many
this way, the ship can travel in any direction. All three dimensions. 
RIKER: And the square of the hypotenuse of a right triangle
LORE: Is equal to the sum of the square of the other two. Two
something. Which I once heard, but never understood.
DATA: All of which you will learn more about when the Captain has
approved your being on the Bridge.
LORE: Have I committed an offence?
WESLEY: You will find that there are many rules on starships that must
be learnt.
LORE: You're very clever, Wesley. I now have duties to perform. Correct?
WORF: Were you ever this anxious to please, Data?
DATA: Never. I judge Lore to be superior in that desire.
LORE: Because I was designed to be so human, my brother, I enjoy
pleasing humans.
LAFORGE: My brother. That has a nice sound to it, Data.
DATA: You consider it important to please humans?
LORE: It's not important?
DATA: There are many things of importance. Some more than others.

