RIKER LAFORGE TASHA PICARD WESLEY LORE CRUSHER
unconscious bell showing opening record isn approval careful whooshes

[Data's Quarters]

(Obviously, Lore is now impersonating Data and has
donned his uniform) 
LORE: Crystal Entity. Upon arriving here you can identify me as the
machine named Data. (door bell) End of message. Come in, please. 
(Wesley enters and sees Lore, or rather Data in Lore's overall, on the
floor) 
LORE: Glad you are here, Wesley. Lore suddenly attacked me and I had to
turn him off.
WESLEY: Why did he do that, Data?
LORE: He discovered we have been using sensors to follow what he does.
(twitch) I practiced his facial tic. Do I have it right?
WESLEY: I'd suggest you forget imitating him. If you'd said we've been
using the sensors, instead of we have, I might have suspected you were
Lore.
LORE: Yes. I do use language more formally than Lore. Please inform the
Captain I will come up to the Bridge and report on this.
WESLEY: Aye, sir. 
(Wesley leaves, and Lore uses a laser to recreate his tic on Data, and
cure his own)

[Bridge]

CRUSHER: Wes, tell me again how Data said he
immobilised Lore.
WESLEY: He told me he just turned him off, Mom, er, Doctor.
(Lore as Data enters) 
CRUSHER: Question, Mister Data. Did you or did you not swear me to
secrecy about your off switch?
LORE: A change of mind, Doctor. If I cannot trust the bridge crew, whom
can I?
LAFORGE: Captain, I'm picking up a bogey coming in on a five o'clock
tangent.
TASHA: It's transmitting no ID signal, Captain.
RIKER: Set main viewer on that tangent.
PICARD: Shields up. Go to Yellow Alert. Transmit friendly greetings,
all languages, all frequencies.
(The Crystal Entity whooshes towards them) 
RIKER: I can't believe anything's overtaking us this fast.
LORE: Beautiful, isn't it?
RIKER: I recognise it, sir. It's the crystal image Lore described. 
CRUSHER: My God. 
(The Enterprise is dwarfed by the Entity) 
TASHA: Still no ID being transmitted, sir. Also no answer to our
inquiries.
(Geordi enters, or re-enters. Some time must have passed) 
PICARD: Did you get a direct look at it?
LAFORGE: It's like a giant snow flake crystal, but much more complex.
The entire electromagnetic spectrum seems to play about inside it, but
I haven't the slightest idea what it is, sir.
PICARD: Thank you, Lieutenant. Data, is there anything else that Lore
can tell us about it, it may be important. Can you control him enough
to question him?
LORE: I will have to examine him to know, sir.
WESLEY: Captain, recommend that you do not let him roam the ship freely.
PICARD: Ensign.
LORE: Wesley is only showing himself to be alert and responsible.
Something to encourage. Come, you can watch everything I do.
WESLEY: Not if I have a choice.
PICARD: That is enough, Ensign. When addressing a senior officer.
RIKER: I've guided his training, sir, I'm the one at fault. You will
show the proper respect. I will accompany you down there to make
certain of it. With your approval, of course, sir.

[Data's Quarters]

LORE: Be careful of Lore. Good. He is still
unconscious. Notice the same twitch, even though he is unconscious?
Stay back. We may have problems if he senses someone else is near.
(flicks Data's switch on and off) Lore, I have a few questions to ask
you. 
LORE: Lore, it is Data. He senses you. I cannot control him if you
stay. Please! I will record everything he says. 
RIKER: You will bring it to the Bridge, immediately. 
(Riker and Wesley leave) 
LORE: And you want to be as stupid as them, dear brother? 
(Lore kicks Data in the head, opening a flap of skin)

