RIKER WORF TASHA PICARD WESLEY LORE CRUSHER DATA

[Bridge]

TASHA: But how did Data escape that thing? Or Lore?
RIKER: Lore had been disassembled. He explained it as jealousy from the
colonists. And Data wasn't yet alive at that time.
PICARD: Which explains why Data could be left outside in no danger from
that creature. Whatever happened to the colonists, he would be found by
the first Starfleet crew that responded to the signal he transmitted.
TASHA: By which Doctor Soong left proof behind that his experiment did
work.
RIKER: Captain, how believable do you find that crystal thing?
PICARD: With so little of even our galaxy explored, I find it at least
possible.
TASHA: Data, are you expecting Lore to come up here? He left your
quarters some time ago.
DATA: To go?
TASHA: My turbo-sensors say he went to deck four. Worf?
WORF: Where he examined some micro-miniature work tools, and some fine
grind quadratanium ?
DATA: Which is used in our construction. That particular compound is no
more suspicious, sir, than a human looking for an antiseptic or an
ointment. Nevertheless, I should check it out.
CRUSHER: You're watching everything he does, Data? Is that the act of a
brother?
PICARD: It's the act of a Starfleet officer obeying his Captain, Doctor.
(Data leaves) 
TASHA: Captain? Speaking strictly as Security Chief, how much can you
trust Data now?
PICARD: I trust him completely. But everyone should also realise that
that was a necessary and legitimate security question.
TASHA: Thank you, sir.

[Data's Quarters]

(Lore pours out two glasses of champagne, and adds
a substance to one of them. Data enters) 
LORE: Lesson number one in becoming more human. You must observe all
human customs.
DATA: Champagne?
LORE: An ancient ritual still practiced when they celebrate events of
importance. My brother, I toast our discovery of each other. May it
fill our lives with new meaning.
(Data drinks from the doctored glass) 
DATA: I have some doubts about the value of human customs (feels an
effect) in this. My brother! 
LORE: And let us toast also Doctor Soong, who gave me the full richness
of human needs and ambitions. A perfect match for my mind, my body. 
(Data collapses) 
LORE: And let us toast also the great Crystal Entity with whom I
learned to communicate. Before Doctor Soong disassembled me, I earned
its gratitude by revealing the way to the colonists. Can you image its
gratitude when I give it the life on this vessel?

[Bridge]

WORF: This is strange, sir. I show Commander Data
transmitting on a subspace channel.
RIKER: I know Data's been doing considerable research on Doctor Soong's
background. Let's be sure. Wesley, would you look in on Commander Data?
Discreetly?
WESLEY: Yes sir!

