BEATA RIKER DATA [OC] ARIEL RIKER [OC] RAMSEY CRUSHER [OC] CRUSHER DATA
careful fit martyrs jar devices symbols death honoured precisely

[Bridge]

RIKER [OC]: For following my orders so precisely,
Data. 
[Guest Quarters]

RIKER: On second thought, Trent, we would be
honoured to witness your moral imperative in action.

[Great Hall]

BEATA: (upset) We have determined that the
heretical teachings of Ramsey and his followers are
inconsistent with harmonious life on Angel One. Our patient efforts to
silence revolutionary voices have failed. Therefore we are left with
none but the most final alternative. 
(There is a large jar between two devices. Trent puts his hands on a
glass globe, it glows purple, the devices light up and disintegrate the
jar) 
BEATA: As you can see, we are not without compassion. Your deaths will
be swift and painless. 
RIKER: Mistress Beata, before we see living examples of your
compassion, may I speak? 
BEATA: Is this a plea for leniency? 
RIKER: Nothing of the sort. As the governing body of Angel One, you're
entitled to execute your laws or your citizens as you see fit. 
BEATA: Make your point, so we can proceed with this unpleasant
business. 
RIKER: When you spoke of the prisoners, you used the term
revolutionary. Indeed, death has been known to stop revolutions. But I
suspect it's not a revolution that Angel One is hoping to stop. It's
evolution. Mister Ramsey and the Odin survivors did not initiate the
waves of dissent that are rippling through your planet. Their presence
here merely reinforced the change in attitudes between men and women
that was already well under way. They became symbols around whom others
who shared their views could gather. You may eliminate the symbols, but
that does not mean death to the issues which those symbols represent.
No power in the universe can hope to stop the force of evolution. Be
warned. The execution of Mister Ramsey and his followers may elevate
them to the status of martyrs. Martyrs cannot be silenced. 
(Ramsey is taken to the place of execution. Trent starts to lower his
hand)
ARIEL: Beata! 
BEATA: Stop. We will adjourn to consider your words. 
(The council leaves) 
RAMSEY: Thank you. 
RIKER: I don't know if it was enough. 
[Bridge]

CRUSHER: [OC]: Sickbay to Bridge. 
DATA: Go ahead, Doctor. 
CRUSHER [OC]: Bingo, Data. 
DATA: Bingo? I fail to see the relevance, Doctor. Is that not a
reference to an ancient Earth game? 
[Sickbay]

CRUSHER: It's also a reference to success, Data.
I've got the inoculants. 
[Bridge]

DATA: Excellent, Doctor. We still have seventeen
minutes left. I will inform the away team immediately. Enterprise to
Riker. 
[Great hall]

DATA [OC]: We are ready to have you beamed up,
Commander. 
RIKER: Data, Ramsey and the prisoners are with us in the Great Hall. I
want you to lock the transporter. Prepare to evacuate the entire group.

[Bridge]

RIKER [OC]: But for now, stand by. 
DATA: Understood, Commander. 
[Great hall]

(Beata and the council enter) 
BEATA: After careful consideration, this legislature has voted to stay
the execution of the prisoners. Their children will be returned to them
immediately. Do not rejoice prematurely. Ramsey and his followers are
to be exiled to a distant and unpopulated region. Life will be
difficult there with little time for revolutionary or evolutionary
upheaval. As some have observed, we may be able to stop evolution, but
perhaps we can reduce it to a slow crawl. For a man, you can be very
clever, Commander Riker. 
RIKER: Riker to Enterprise. Belay my previous order, Mister Data. There
will now be only three to beam up. Energise. 
