BEATA RIKER TASHA RIKER [OC] ARIEL RAMSEY CRUSHER [OC] CRUSHER DATA
computed puts mister jar devices symbols imperative execution speed

[Guest quarters]

DATA: After relieving Lieutenant La Forge, I
computed the length of time the border outpost 
[Bridge]

DATA: And the USS Berlin can safely withstand a
Romulan attack, and deducted our time to destination at maximum warp
speed. That leaves Doctor Crusher forty eight minutes to develop an
inoculants to the virus. 
[Guest quarters]

TASHA: Which means there's still time for us to do
something. 
RIKER: Forty-eight minutes. 
[Bridge]

DATA: Forty seven, sir. 
[Guest quarters]

RIKER: Perhaps, Data, perhaps. Thank you 
[Bridge]

RIKER [OC]: For following my orders so precisely,
Data. 
[Guest Quarters]

RIKER: On second thought, Trent, we would be
honoured to witness your moral imperative in action.

[Great Hall]

BEATA: (upset) We have determined that the
heretical teachings of Ramsey and his followers are
inconsistent with harmonious life on Angel One. Our patient efforts to
silence revolutionary voices have failed. Therefore we are left with
none but the most final alternative. 
(There is a large jar between two devices. Trent puts his hands on a
glass globe, it glows purple, the devices light up and disintegrate the
jar) 
BEATA: As you can see, we are not without compassion. Your deaths will
be swift and painless. 
RIKER: Mistress Beata, before we see living examples of your
compassion, may I speak? 
BEATA: Is this a plea for leniency? 
RIKER: Nothing of the sort. As the governing body of Angel One, you're
entitled to execute your laws or your citizens as you see fit. 
BEATA: Make your point, so we can proceed with this unpleasant
business. 
RIKER: When you spoke of the prisoners, you used the term
revolutionary. Indeed, death has been known to stop revolutions. But I
suspect it's not a revolution that Angel One is hoping to stop. It's
evolution. Mister Ramsey and the Odin survivors did not initiate the
waves of dissent that are rippling through your planet. Their presence
here merely reinforced the change in attitudes between men and women
that was already well under way. They became symbols around whom others
who shared their views could gather. You may eliminate the symbols, but
that does not mean death to the issues which those symbols represent.
No power in the universe can hope to stop the force of evolution. Be
warned. The execution of Mister Ramsey and his followers may elevate
them to the status of martyrs. Martyrs cannot be silenced. 
(Ramsey is taken to the place of execution. Trent starts to lower his
hand)
ARIEL: Beata! 
BEATA: Stop. We will adjourn to consider your words. 
(The council leaves) 
RAMSEY: Thank you. 
RIKER: I don't know if it was enough. 
[Bridge]

CRUSHER: [OC]: Sickbay to Bridge. 
DATA: Go ahead, Doctor. 
CRUSHER [OC]: Bingo, Data. 
DATA: Bingo? I fail to see the relevance, Doctor. Is that not a
reference to an ancient Earth game? 
