BEATA RIKER LAFORGE WORF TASHA PICARD TROI CRUSHER DATA

[Bridge]

CRUSHER [OC]: Person to person contact. 
PICARD: Well, keep with it, Doctor. Starfleet has very important
business for us as soon as the away team returns. I don't fancy the
idea of my crew being infected. 
[Great Hall]

RIKER: Data, what's the best way to go about
finding Ramsey and the other survivors? 
DATA: If we can isolate something unique to the Odin survivors, perhaps
an element not otherwise found on Angel One, we can utilise the
Enterprise scanners. 
RIKER: Mister Data will need access to your library. 
BEATA: Our library is far too sophisticated for a man to comprehend. 
DATA: I am an android, Mistress, although anatomically I am a male. 
BEATA: An amusing notion. Maybe you could teach our males a thing or
two. Trent, see to the android's needs. 
[Bridge]

WORF: Bridge to Captain Picard. 
PICARD: [OC]: Go ahead, Lieutenant. 
WORF: The away team requests that we scan the planet surface for traces
of platinum. 
PICARD: [OC]: Have Mister La Forge break fixed orbit and initiate a
search pattern. 
WORF: Aye, Captain. Geordi. 
LAFORGE: Search pattern initiated now. 
[Guest quarters]

(Riker enters, and Troi hands him a local male
outfit on a hangar) 
TROI: This was delivered for you. 
RIKER: Good. It's for my meeting with Beata. 
TROI: You're not going to wear that. 
RIKER: Of course. Part of this mission is diplomatic. I have requested
an audience with a head of state, and I will honour her by wearing
indigenous apparel.
TASHA: I don't believe this. You're going to put that thing on and
parade around like one of them? 
RIKER: Why, what is this attitude? On Kabatris I had to wear furs to
meet the leadership council. And on Armus Nine I wore feathers. This
objection doesn't have anything to do with the fact that Beata is a
woman, and an attractive one, does it?

 [Ready Room]

(The Captain is obviously ill) 
PICARD: This is quite unnecessary, Doctor. I'm fine. 
CRUSHER: You're infected with the virus. Captain. In my opinion, you
are no longer physically able to effectively command this vessel. 
PICARD: That is ridiculous, Doctor. I have an away team down there, in
less than friendly territory, and in addition I have an appointment
with several Romulan battlecruisers. 
CRUSHER: You have an appointment in your cabin, Captain. With your bed.

PICARD: Is that an order, Doctor? 
CRUSHER: Yes. 
