BEATA RIKER LAFORGE WORF TASHA PICARD TROI DATA

[Bridge]

LAFORGE: Ready to begin orbit of Angel One,
Captain. 
PICARD: Make it so, Mister La Forge. What kind of place is this, Data? 
DATA: Angel One is a class M planet, sir, supporting carbon based flora
and fauna, sparsely populated with intelligent life forms. It is
similar in technological development to mid-twentieth century Earth. 
LAFORGE: Kind of like being marooned at home. 
RIKER: Assuming any of the survivors made it this far. Admittedly, it
'is the closest planet to the
Odin, but to travel distance we did in two days at warp one would have
taken the Odin escape pod five months. 
DATA: Five months, fourteen days, eleven hours, two minutes 
RIKER: Thank you, Data. 
DATA: And fifty seven seconds. 
TASHA: Captain, we're receiving an audio signal from Angel One. 
PICARD: Starfleet are adamant that we maintain excellent diplomatic
relations with this planet. Mister Data, is there any other pertinent
information before we reply? 
DATA: Angel One has evolved into a constitutional oligarchy. It is
governed by a parliamentary body consisting of six elected Mistresses,
and headed by a female they refer to as The Elected One.
TROI: It sounds like my own planet. 
WORF: Klingons appreciate strong women. 
PICARD: How current is this information, Mister Data? 
DATA: A Federation vessel last visited this planet sixty two years ago,
Captain. 
PICARD: Counsellor, as this is a female dominated society, you might
wish to make the initial contact. 
TROI: Thank you, sir. 
PICARD: Open hailing frequencies. 
TASHA: Hailing frequencies open, sir. 
TROI: This is Counsellor Deanna Troi from the USS Enterprise. 
BEATA: [OC]: I am Beata, The Elected One. How may we assist you,
Counsellor? 
TROI: The Federation has neglected to visit to your planet for far too
long. With your permission, we would like to correct that oversight. 
BEATA: [OC]: We feel in no way neglected, Counsellor. A diplomatic
courtesy call is neither expected nor required. 
TROI: We also come in search of possible survivors from one of our
freighters. 
BEATA: [OC]: A brief visit will be tolerated. 
TASHA: They've broken off transmission. 
LAFORGE: Ever feel like you're not really wanted? 
