BEATA RAMSEY TROI LAFORGE CREWMAN TASHA RIKER WORF CRUSHER DATA

[Bridge]

WORF: Engineering reports a computer malf (sneeze)
I'm sorry, I'm getting sick. 
LAFORGE: I'm sure half the ship knows that by now. Report to Sickbay,
Lieutenant. 
CREWMAN [OC]: Engineering to bridge. 
LAFORGE: La Forge here. 
CREWMAN [OC]: The computer won't accept the variant climate controls. 
LAFORGE: On my way. 
WORF: With all respect, Lieutenant, there are people to do that job
now. 
LAFORGE: La Forge to Engineering. Lieutenant Wong knows the system. I'm
sure she'll be able to resolve all problems. Worf, thanks for the
advice. 
[Hideout]

RAMSEY: How did you find me? 
DATA: Actually, it was quite simple. Angel One has no platinum.
Enterprise scanners did the rest. 
RAMSEY: Platinum, was it? My wings. I kept them for their sentimental
value. 
TASHA: Where are the other survivors, Mister Ramsey? 
RAMSEY: Oh, they're nearby. They're packing, as a matter of fact, since
we can no longer remain here. 
TROI: Seven years on an alien planet, and I sense no anticipation, no
excitement
at being rescued. 
RAMSEY: What is it that you think you're rescuing me from? My shipmates
and I have all taken wives. A few even have children. You can't rescue
a man from a place that he calls his home. 
[Beata's quarters]

(Beata has slipped into something more comfortable)

RIKER: Why were you so hesitant at first to tell us about the Odin
survivors? 
BEATA: Simply because Ramsey and his men are anarchists. I had to make
sure you weren't here to fuel their struggle. I like the way your eyes
pick up the colour of your tunic. 
RIKER: It's not our position to interfere in the domestic affairs of
other societies. 
BEATA: But you can interact. 
RIKER: Of course. Otherwise, how can we learn? 
BEATA: Is that why you're here with me tonight? To learn? 
RIKER: Yes. 
BEATA: About our society. 
RIKER: Yes. 
BEATA: Well, in our society, it is the men who are the fortunate ones,
enjoying all life has to offer while we women devote ourselves to the
obligation of making life work. 
RIKER: In our society, we share the responsibilities and the pleasures
equally. Which is why I am able to be here with you while the women of
the away team go to find Ramsey. 
BEATA: You'll have to remind me to thank them when they come back for
giving us this time. 
(She kisses him) 
BEATA: You resist. Don't you find me attractive? 
RIKER: Yes, I find you very attractive. 
BEATA: You attract me like no man ever has. 
RIKER: It's not my function to seduce or be seduced by the leader of
another world. 
BEATA: It's not the reason. 
RIKER: No, it's not. But will you still respect me in the morning? 
BEATA: I hope so. 
(They get into a clinch just as Trent enters and hands a gift to Riker)

RIKER: Thank you, Trent. 
BEATA: You may go. 
(Trent leaves reluctantly. Riker opens the gift for Beata) 
RIKER: Compliments of the USS Enterprise. It's called an Albeni
meditation crystal. 
(He touches it with a rod, and it pulses with a yellow glow) 
BEATA: Very impressive. And now I must repay you in kind. 
[Hideout]

RAMSEY: Five months in a rescue pod no bigger than
this room is an eternity I hope none of you will ever have to face.
When we finally made it here, we thought we'd died and gone to heaven.
You've seen the women of the planet. They're tall and strong and
lovely. But after the newness wore off, we started to see how the men
were treated. There's no
votes. There's no opinions. There's no respect. 
TASHA: None of which is your concern any longer, Mister Ramsey. Call
the others in, please. It's time to leave.
RAMSEY: Despite their problems, Lieutenant, we happen to like it here
on Angel One. We're not going anywhere. 
TROI: But Mistress Beata 
RAMSEY: Mistress Beata be damned! Her wish is not my command, and
neither is yours. You can't force us to go. 
DATA: Mister Ramsey is correct, Counsellor. The Odin was not a
starship, which means her crew is not bound by the Prime Directive. If
he and the others wish to stay here, there is absolutely nothing we can
do about it. 
[Sickbay]

LAFORGE: [OC]: Bridge to Sickbay how are you Doing,
Doctor? 
CRUSHER: We have more sick than we do beds. So far I've been forced to
confine over three hundred to their private quarters. 
[Bridge]

LAFORGE: We're going to be seriously undermanned if
we're forced to engage the Romulans in battle. 
[Sickbay]

CRUSHER: The Romulans are your problem, Lieutenant.
Trying to find an inoculants
is mine. This virus mutates every twenty minutes. But so far we haven't
had any fatalities, yet. 
[Bridge]

LAFORGE: If this continues, there'll be no one left
to run the ship. 
[Sickbay]

CRUSHER: If this continues, Lieutenant La Forge, no
one will be healthy enough to care. 
