BEATA RIKER TASHA TROI RAMSEY TRENT CRUSHER DATA

[Great hall]

RIKER: What's the latest on the Enterprise's
medical situation? 
DATA: Doctor Crusher feels the virus will undoubtedly run unchecked
through the entire ship. Attempts to develop an inoculants have so far
ended in failure. Lieutenant La Forge still has Bridge command pending
your return, sir. 
RIKER: And what about the Romulans entering the Neutral Zone? 
DATA: The border outpost reports a contingent of seven Romulan
battlecruisers within sensor range. The USS Berlin has answered the
distress call. However, should hostilities erupt, both the outpost and
the starship will be out-gunned. It is felt that the Enterprise's
presence in the area will be a vital show of force. 
TASHA: Some show of force. The Enterprise could fly on autopilot, but
with that virus knocking down our crew, we're going to be in sorry
shape if things turn ugly. 
RIKER: I think it's time we to leave this place. 
TROI: It doesn't feel right to leave while Beata is determined to
execute those people. 
RIKER: She has to find them first. Ramsey and his bunch have been
fugitives for years. I suspect he's pretty good at evading capture. 
TROI: Something's wrong. 
(Beata enters, with Trent) 
BEATA: Before you go back to your ship, there's something I want you to
see. 
(Ramsey and his group are brought in) 
RAMSEY: We were no harm to anyone. Why did you tell them where to find
us? 
BEATA: You brought this upon yourself. You and the traitor. One does
not need the technology of the Enterprise to follow Mistress Ariel
sneaking out to warn her husband. Let her stand with him now. For
tomorrow they will die together. 
[Beata's quarters]

(Beata is doing paperwork) 
RIKER: You claim to be an advanced society, and yet you resort to
executions in order to suppress those who don't share your views. 
BEATA: I don't expect you to understand. 
RIKER: Why? Because I'm only a man? 
BEATA: You'll accomplish nothing with that attitude. 
RIKER: Mistress Beata, if you had an alternative to the execution of
Ramsey and his followers, would you take it? 
BEATA: Is that not the way of an advanced society? 
RIKER: Then let us meet with the men from Odin one last time. Let me
try to convince them to leave with us.
BEATA: Will you also include those from this world who unwisely choose
to follow Ramsey and his group? 
RIKER: Yes. All of them. 
[Holding area]

TROI: Mistress Beata is willing to give you a
second chance. We're prepared to take your entire group with us. 
RAMSEY: That's very kind of you, but we're not going. 
TASHA: Haven't you been paying attention, Ramsey? You're scheduled to
be executed tomorrow. 
RAMSEY: We don't want to die. We don't want to leave, either. 
RIKER: There's no time to debate the issues. You're going with us
whether you choose to go or not. 
DATA: Excuse me, Commander, but removing any of these people against
their will would be a violation of several Starfleet regulations, not
the least of which would be the Prime Directive. 
RIKER: I realise that, Mister Data. I'd rather face a court martial
than live with the guilt of leaving these people to their deaths.
Commander Riker to Enterprise. 
CRUSHER [OC]: This is the Enterprise. Crusher here. 
TASHA: It must be worse up there than we thought. 
RIKER: Doctor, where is Lieutenant La Forge? 
[Bridge]

CRUSHER: He's right here, but he's in bad shape. 
RIKER [OC]: Notify the transporter room I have fourteen to beam up. 
CRUSHER: I can't allow it. 
[Holding area]

CRUSHER [OC]: This virus is totally out of control
here. Until I know exactly what I'm dealing with, I can't let anyone
new be exposed. 
RIKER: Doctor, these people are facing their deaths down here. 
[Bridge] 
CRUSHER: They might be facing the same thing up
here. Until I have a better idea of what I'm dealing with, no one can
beam up. I'm sorry, Will, but you must wait. 
[Holding area]

RIKER: Understood. Doctor, would this virus have
any effect on Mister Data? 
CRUSHER [OC]: Not likely. 
RIKER: You're going back there alone. I want you to get the Enterprise
into the Neutral Zone before it's too late. 
DATA: This is Data, standing by to beam up. 
(He beams away) 
TROI: What of them? 
RIKER: I don't know, Deanna. 
[Guest quarters]

TRENT: Mistress Beata invites you to witness this
morning's reaffirmation of Angel One's moral imperative. 
TASHA: Is that the civilised word for murder on this world? 
RIKER: You send Mistress Beata our regrets. 
TRENT: The Elected One will not look fondly upon 
DATA: [OC]: Enterprise to Commander Riker. 
TROI: They're still here! 
RIKER: Riker here. Data, I gave you direct orders to get to Neutral
Zone immediately. Explain the delay.

[Bridge]

DATA: To be precise, Commander, you ordered me to
reach the Neutral Zone before it is too late. 
