BEATA TROI LAFORGE WORF TASHA PICARD RIKER ARIEL CRUSHER
platinum wearing begin people ill actually ridiculous attractive small

[Guest quarters]

(Riker enters, and Troi hands him a local male
outfit on a hangar) 
TROI: This was delivered for you. 
RIKER: Good. It's for my meeting with Beata. 
TROI: You're not going to wear that. 
RIKER: Of course. Part of this mission is diplomatic. I have requested
an audience with a head of state, and I will honour her by wearing
indigenous apparel.
TASHA: I don't believe this. You're going to put that thing on and
parade around like one of them? 
RIKER: Why, what is this attitude? On Kabatris I had to wear furs to
meet the leadership council. And on Armus Nine I wore feathers. This
objection doesn't have anything to do with the fact that Beata is a
woman, and an attractive one, does it?

 [Ready Room]

(The Captain is obviously ill) 
PICARD: This is quite unnecessary, Doctor. I'm fine. 
CRUSHER: You're infected with the virus. Captain. In my opinion, you
are no longer physically able to effectively command this vessel. 
PICARD: That is ridiculous, Doctor. I have an away team down there, in
less than friendly territory, and in addition I have an appointment
with several Romulan battlecruisers. 
CRUSHER: You have an appointment in your cabin, Captain. With your bed.

PICARD: Is that an order, Doctor? 
CRUSHER: Yes. 
[Bridge]

WORF: I think I may sneeze.
LAFORGE: A Klingon sneeze?
WORF: Only kind I know. 
(Picard and Crusher enter) 
PICARD: Lieutenant La Forge, you have command until further notice.
Please, make the proper ship's log entries. 
LAFORGE: Aye, sir. 
(Geordi goes and sits in the Captain's chair) 
WORF: Scanners indicate a platinum trace. Should I notify the away
team? 
LAFORGE: Make it so. 
[Guest quarters]

TROI: Tasha. 
(Riker emerges in full local costume, left breast and chest hair to the
waist fully on show. The women find it highly amusing) 
RIKER: What do you think? 
TASHA: Well, I got to say, it's kind of sexy. 
RIKER: Thank you, Lieutenant. Actually it feels quite comfortable. 
[Beata's quarters]

(They also double as her private office) 
BEATA: How handsome you look. 
RIKER: Thank you, The Enterprise reports a possible location for Mister
Ramsey and the other survivors. 
BEATA: So soon? I'm impressed.
ARIEL: I suspicious. 
RIKER: You don't believe me? 
ARIEL: Not yet. I hear the words, but not the sincerity. 
BEATA: You had your opportunity to object, Ariel. You were in the
minority. 
ARIEL: After seven years, the great ship Enterprise come to repatriate
a small group of insignificant people. 
RIKER: Mistress Ariel, I hear the words but not the sincerity. 
ARIEL: You should listen more carefully. Excuse me, Mistress. I have
matters to attend to elsewhere. 
(Ariel leaves, and Trent follows) 
RIKER: With your permission, we'd like to begin our search immediately.
BEATA: By all means. But I'm sure that Counsellor Troi and the others
can do that without you. If I recall, you had a gesture of goodwill you
wished to give to me? 
RIKER: Certainly that can wait until we've recovered the survivors. 
BEATA: Are you suggesting that the women in your party are incapable of
accomplishing their task without the help of a man? 
RIKER: Not at all. Lieutenant Yar and Counsellor Troi are completely
qualified. 
BEATA: You're very generous with your praise. Inform them you will
remain here with me.
RIKER: Riker to Lieutenant Yar. 
