BEATA TROI LAFORGE TASHA PICARD LAFORGE [OC] RIKER RAMSEY TRENT CRUSHER DATA
real like excused things let bunch drinks undoubtedly happened

[Bridge]

LAFORGE: If this continues, there'll be no one left
to run the ship. 
[Sickbay]

CRUSHER: If this continues, Lieutenant La Forge, no
one will be healthy enough to care. 
[Bridge]

TASHA: [OC]: Yar to Enterprise. 
LAFORGE: Enterprise here. Go ahead. 
[Hideout]

TASHA: Prepare to beam three to our previous
location, Geordi. After re-grouping with Commander Riker, we'll return
to the ship. 
[Bridge]

LAFORGE: I suggest you make that on the double,
Tasha. We have a real medical emergency brewing up here. 
[Hideout]

LAFORGE [OC]: One third of the crew is down, and
the latest information from the Neutral Zone outpost is that more
Romulan vessels are converging on that area. 
TASHA: I'll inform the Commander. Yar out. One thing before we go. You
said you were expecting us. Why? 
RAMSEY: I can't answer that. 
TROI: We wish you well, Mister Ramsey. 
TASHA: Energise. 
(The three beam away) 
RAMSEY: They're gone. 
(Ariel comes out and embraces him)

[Beata's quarters]

BEATA: What a refreshing change to be with a man
who knows what he wants.
RIKER: And doesn't have to be told by a woman? 
BEATA: Exactly. I knew you were bright enough to understand. You see,
women, by our very nature, want only what is best for their men. 
RIKER: Men are not objects to be possessed, Mistress Beata. 
BEATA: Of course they're not. It was merely a figure of speech. 
(Doorbell. She rolls over and turns off the meditation crystal and gets
up.) 
BEATA: Enter. 
(Trent comes in) 
BEATA: What is so important you find it necessary to intrude upon my
privacy? 
TRENT: They have returned, Mistress, but without Ramsey or the others. 
(Tasha, Troi and Data enter) 
BEATA: Your advanced technology has proven inadequate? 
RIKER: What happened, Tasha? 
TROI: Mister Ramsey and the other survivors refuse to leave. 
BEATA: You gave me your solemn word. 
RIKER: I'm sorry, there's nothing else we can do. 
BEATA: I'm sorry as well. Since you refuse to take them with you, I am
left with no choice but to sentence them all to death. 
[Picard's quarters]

(Crusher enters bearing a flask. Picard is in bed,
bare-chested) 
PICARD: Come. 
CRUSHER: It looks horrible, tastes worse, and it's absolutely
guaranteed to make you feel better. 
(He drinks) 
CRUSHER: I knew you'd like it. Are you wearing cologne? Like something
I smelled earlier. Something Klingon.
PICARD: Lieutenant Worf and I detected the same scent when we bumped
into your son at the Holodeck. 
CRUSHER: It's that smell. That's how the virus travels. An airborne
particle whose sweet scent inspires deep inhalation. And once inside
the body, it becomes that damned virus. I have work to do. 
(Crusher leaves) 
PICARD: You are excused, Doctor. 
[Great hall]

RIKER: What's the latest on the Enterprise's
medical situation? 
DATA: Doctor Crusher feels the virus will undoubtedly run unchecked
through the entire ship. Attempts to develop an inoculants have so far
ended in failure. Lieutenant La Forge still has Bridge command pending
your return, sir. 
RIKER: And what about the Romulans entering the Neutral Zone? 
DATA: The border outpost reports a contingent of seven Romulan
battlecruisers within sensor range. The USS Berlin has answered the
distress call. However, should hostilities erupt, both the outpost and
the starship will be out-gunned. It is felt that the Enterprise's
presence in the area will be a vital show of force. 
TASHA: Some show of force. The Enterprise could fly on autopilot, but
with that virus knocking down our crew, we're going to be in sorry
shape if things turn ugly. 
RIKER: I think it's time we to leave this place. 
TROI: It doesn't feel right to leave while Beata is determined to
execute those people. 
RIKER: She has to find them first. Ramsey and his bunch have been
fugitives for years. I suspect he's pretty good at evading capture. 
TROI: Something's wrong. 
(Beata enters, with Trent) 
BEATA: Before you go back to your ship, there's something I want you to
see. 
(Ramsey and his group are brought in) 
RAMSEY: We were no harm to anyone. Why did you tell them where to find
us? 
BEATA: You brought this upon yourself. You and the traitor. One does
not need the technology of the Enterprise to follow Mistress Ariel
sneaking out to warn her husband. Let her stand with him now. For
tomorrow they will die together. 
