BEATA TROI WORF ARIEL PICARD RIKER TASHA TRENT DATA

[Great Hall] 
(There is a full gathering to greet the away team.
People here kneel, not sit on chairs) 
BEATA: I am Beata, The Elected One of Angel One. Representatives of the
Starfleet Enterprise, do you wish to petition? 
TROI: We do. We have reason to hope that survivors from a damaged
Federation freighter may be marooned on your planet. We are seeking to
learn if this is so. 
BEATA: Even a planet as remote as Angel One has heard of Starfleet.
Searching the galaxy for survivors seems a petty task for one of their
mighty vessels. 
RIKER: We don't consider even one survivor petty. 
BEATA: Is this man implying that we put a lesser value on life than you
do? 
TROI: Not at all. Our discovery of the freighter was unexpected. We
have a duty to investigate. 
BEATA: I see. And if you find any survivors, what then? 
TROI: We will take them with us and see that they were reunited with
their families. 
ARIEL: Are we to take these strangers at their word? 
BEATA: Good question. 
TASHA: What reason could we possibly have to deceive you? 
BEATA: Another good question. 
RIKER: Are there survivors from the freighter Odin on your planet? 
BEATA: I'm not prepared to answer, yet. See to their comforts. 
RIKER: (to Troi) What's going on?

[Guest quarters]

TRENT: You will remain here until summoned. 
(He leaves as Tasha sweeps the room with her tricorder) 
RIKER: Is thus area secure? Can we talk? 
TASHA: Yes. Tricorder doesn't show any listening devices or anything
else of a threatening nature. 
RIKER: Good. Troi? 
TROI: There was much fear in that room.
RIKER: Paranoia, I'd say. But of what? 
TROI: I cannot say. But their fear was not focused. I sensed that all
were not concerned for the same reason. Undoubtedly there are survivors
from the Odin on this planet. 
RIKER: I agree. Otherwise, why would they be so circumspect? 
TASHA: As Mistress Beata is so fond of saying, good question.
DATA: What do we do if they deny the existence of survivors? 
RIKER: Let's not look for problems. 
[Turbolift]

PICARD: I want all departments prepared for a warp
six trip into the Neutral Zone as soon as the away team completes its
mission. 
WORF: Trouble, Captain? 
PICARD: Insurance. Romulan battle cruisers have been detected near one
of our border posts. 
