TROI VOICE LAFORGE WORF TASHA PICARD RIKER LUISA RIKER [OC] CHIEF [OC] MANDL CRUSHER DATA CREWWOMAN
beautiful increased intelligence cadmium chief reprogramming consists reached continued

[Engineering]

RIKER: Status, Ensign? 
CREWWOMAN: The quarantine seal is getting weaker. Every time I try to
redirect backup it goes somewhere else. I think I've. No, it's locked
three people in a turbolift and two more in the programmers' rest room.

RIKER: If that reading is right, there is no seal. Give me lab interior
image. 
CREWWOMAN: Yes, sir. 
RIKER: Magnify. 
(The bell jar flares again, and the light gets brighter and pulses more
quickly) 
RIKER: Picard, this is Riker. 
[Observation lounge]

PICARD: We see it too, Number One. 
(Static charges flare from the bell jar) 
PICARD: Get that seal back up. 
[Engineering]

CREWWOMAN: Sir, no matter what I do, the energy
goes somewhere else. What if it hits the Sickbay, or nursery? 
RIKER: Hold off. Impossible, Captain. 
[Observation lounge]

RIKER [OC]: We haven't got the power.

Captain's log, supplemental. The life form, which
has significantly increased in size, is again attempting to communicate
with us. 
[Bridge]

DATA: The Universal Translator is coming on line,
sir. 
VOICE: Ugly, ugly giants bags of mostly water 
PICARD: Bags of mostly water? 
DATA: An accurate description of humans, sir. You are over ninety per
cent water surrounded by a flexible container. 
CRUSHER: Life force, do you understand us? 
VOICE: We understand. We ask you that you be gone. We call. We talk.
You not listen. 
PICARD: We didn't hear you. We come in peace. 
VOICE: Ugly bags of mostly water, we try at peace. You still do not
listen. Bags who drill in sands of home have to die. 
RIKER: It killed Malencon. 
TROI: We see and hear you now. We didn't know you were there. You are
beautiful to us. All life is beautiful. 
VOICE: Bag in dome did know. Caused much death. Made us kill. War is
now with you. 
DATA: The translator is now offline, sir. 
PICARD: Can you hear us now? (the ship shakes) Mister La Forge? 
LAFORGE: Restabilising, Captain. 
DATA: Sir, that chaos when we were studying it in the lab must have
been the energy surge of a reproductive cycle.
It is now a colony of single cells which organize as a computer. And
like any computer 
PICARD: More is stronger. 
(The ship shakes again) 
Captain's log, supplemental. We have regained
visual contact with the lab, but our attempts to restore communication
with this microbrain, as we have come to call it, has been
unsuccessful. One thing that is certain, however. This life form has
declared war on us.

[Bridge]

RIKER: Their range of influence appears to be
concentrated in the Medical Lab, Captain. 
TASHA: All non-essential personnel have been moved to the most distant
areas of the ship, sir. 
PICARD: Data, any analysis of those bolts of light it emits? 
DATA: That seems to be it's method of reprogramming, Captain. Each bolt
of light consists of negatively and positively charged ions. A series
of programme instructions, as it were. It seems to have a quicker
rapport with our computers than we have. 
WORF: What do you expect? It is computer. 
PICARD: Have we disabled the Medical Lab computer console? 
RIKER: Aye, sir. As soon as Data determined the microbrain's method of
operation. 
LAFORGE: Captain, picking up a decrease in infra-red intensity. 
WORF: Maybe the life-form has reached its energy level. 
CRUSHER: Or maybe that's not the end of it. With single-celled life
forms, at least organic ones, cell division is preceded by a resting
state. 
RIKER: The calm before the storm? 
PICARD: Medical Lab on main viewer. Let's use this calm. 
DATA: It does seem dormant, Captain. 
PICARD: Tasha, set coordinates to beam it back where it came from. 
TASHA: Coordinates set, sir. 
PICARD: Energise. 
(They see the transporter effect try to take hold and then be repulsed)

LAFORGE: Transporter power being redirected, sir. We are unable to
affect it. 
PICARD: Life form or not, intelligent or not , the safety of this ship
and everyone aboard her is my primary responsibility. Data, evacuate
all the air from the Medical Lab. I want a vacuum there. 
DATA: Environmental systems fail to respond to command, Captain. It
appears the microbrain has successfully interfaced with our computers. 
[Observation Lounge]

MANDL: Picard, if it did try to communicate with
us, we didn't understand that. 
PICARD: It has declared a state of war and we are on the defensive. We
have no control over our Medical Lab nor our computer. At this moment
it has the power to destroy this ship and everybody on it. I need your
help. 
MANDL: Unbelievable.
PICARD: It said you killed some of them. I need to know how. 
MANDL: I don't know. 
PICARD: What was Malencon doing when he was killed? 
LUISA: There is a very thin layer of highly saline water under the
sandy top soil. He was siphoning that off. 
CRUSHER: Perhaps somehow that saline water sustained them. 
DATA: It connected them. 
LUISA: I don't understand. 
CRUSHER: The microbrains may be like our own brain cells. Individually,
a cell has life but not intelligence. Yet when interconnected, their
combined intelligence is formidable. 
DATA: The saline fluid is their circuitry, and to prevent its loss,
they killed Malencon. 
LUISA: If we had continued to remove that water, we would have
destroyed them all. 
PICARD: Reason enough for anyone to go to war. 
RIKER [OC]: Captain, it's happening again. I think you'd better get in
here. 
[Bridge]

(This time, after the bright light, the bell jar
breaks and a crystalline structure stands there, free) 
RIKER: If this keeps up, it will tear up the Enterprise. 
PICARD: What can you determine, Mister La Forge? 
DATA: Captain, our sensors indicate that the microbrain expends a
tremendous amount of energy during its reproductive cycle. Yet there is
no discernible power drain on our own systems. 
PICARD: Then what is feeding the damn thing? 
LAFORGE: We found traces of cadmium salts. Now, cadmium is a conduit
for converting infra-red into electricity. 
PICARD: Meaning? 
DATA: Meaning the microbrains might be photoelectric. 
PICARD: Kill the lights in the medical lab, Mister La Forge. Let's see
if darkness will neutralise it. 
LAFORGE: Sorry, sir, it still has control of the computer. We can't do
it by remote. 
PICARD: Number One, light. 
LUISA: The life form must have evolved at that narrow layer where the
light got through the sand to the water. Drop the water a centimetre
below the light penetration level, and they starve.

[Corridor]

RIKER: Killing lab lights now.

[Bridge]

TASHA: It's slowing down. 
LAFORGE: It's getting dimmer, too. 
VOICE: More light please. 
PICARD: Only if you will talk to us. 
VOICE: We die. Bags of water kill us. You are like others. 
PICARD: We have no wish to kill you. We never have. 
VOICE: You do not say truth. 
PICARD: We will end this war, if you will end the war. 
VOICE: Darkness. Death. Terrible. Must go home to wet sand. War over. 
PICARD: Agreed. We will send you home to your wet sand. Picard to
Riker. Bring up the lights in the lab, just a bit. (he does) Are you
better? 
VOICE: Better. 
PICARD: We mean you no harm. Do you believe me? 
VOICE: Yes. 
PICARD: Good. It is important that you trust us. 
VOICE: Not yet. You are still too arrogant. Too primitive. Come back
three centuries. Perhaps then we trust. 
PICARD: We understand what you are saying. We will leave you. We will
send you home. 
[Medical lab]

RIKER: Riker to Transporter Chief. Pick up the
coordinates of the bell jar in the Medical Lab for return to Velara
Three. 
CHIEF [OC]: Coordinates entered, sir. 
RIKER: Riker to Bridge. Captain, we're ready to beam it back to the
planet.

