TROI RIKER LAFORGE WORF TASHA PICARD BENSEN COMPUTER WESLEY LUISA MANDL CRUSHER DATA

[Control room]

LAFORGE: Data's in the hydraulics room alone, and
we're hearing laser blasts. 
[Bridge]

PICARD: Get him out of there! 
[Control room]

BENSEN: It's not working again. 
LAFORGE: We've got to get this door open. Data! We can't get in! Data!
Data! Data! 
(The door opens on a room full of smoke)

[Bridge]

PICARD: Away team, now. What is happening? 
[Hydraulics room]

PICARD [OC]: I'm going to beam him out of there. 
DATA: Bridge, this is Lieutenant Commander Data. No need to beam me up,
sir. The situation is under control. 
LAFORGE: Are you all right? 
DATA: Yes. 
LAFORGE: What happened? Did you do anything which might have set it
off? 
DATA: No, but the firing programme was dynamic. 
LAFORGE: The firing programme? In what way? 
DATA: It adjusted to my tactics. It tracked with me, anticipating. A
fixed programme
could not have done that. 
LAFORGE: Are you suggesting that someone was controlling the aiming and
firing sequence? 
DATA: That is exactly how it appeared. There was a mind working against
me. 
BENSEN: What did you do to this laser drill? A year's work destroyed! 
(The drill looks like the last turkey in the shop) 
DATA: I had no choice. 
[Ready room]

DATA: We were attempting to trace the source of the
malfunction when it attacked me. 
MANDL: How much more of this useless fantasy must I listen to? 
PICARD: None at all, Mister Mandl. Until this is sorted out, I've
provided temporary quarters for you and your staff. Perhaps you'd like
to make use of them. 
MANDL: You're overstepping your authority, Picard. You have no right to
interfere. 
PICARD: Mister Mandl, an attack on one of my crew gives me the right. 
MANDL: I have a schedule to meet. 
PICARD: Your schedule is on hold, until I have a satisfactory
explanation of this. Director Mandl. Lieutenant Yar, would you escort
the Director to his quarters. 
TASHA: Aye, sir. 
(Mandl and Tasha leave) 
PICARD: Go on with your report. 
DATA: It would appear the laser's drilling system was reprogrammed,
sir. As soon as its memory bank received power, it turned itself on and
went after me. Fortunately, I was able to cope with it. 
LAFORGE: And not by much, from what I saw. 
DATA: I believe it was programmed to destroy any person moving in that
room, sir. 
PICARD: Certainty? Or speculation? 
DATA: Certainty. 
LAFORGE: That would have required the talents of a master programmer. 
DATA: But it was done. 
PICARD: And so the question becomes not who, since it clearly was one
of the three remaining terraformers. The question becomes why? What are
they hiding? What could be so important that one or all of them, could
be desperate enough to kill? 
LAFORGE: Shall I have them brought in, sir? 
PICARD: Not yet.

[Bridge]

PICARD: Malencon? 
CRUSHER: I couldn't save him. The injuries were too severe, the damage
too extensive. 
RIKER: The entire Velara Three facility has been powered down, Captain.

WORF: We've just completed a remote power feed to the life support
systems. 
PICARD: Good. Data, I want you and Geordi to return for more careful
inspection. 
DATA: What are we to look for, sir? 
PICARD: Evidence of tampering, negligence, sabotage, whatever. The
answer's there, on the planet. Tasha, I want you to provide Counsellor
Troi and me with complete personnel records on our three guests. Psych
profiles, training, everything. I'm looking for motive, intent, the
psychological capacity to commit one murder and to attempt another. 
TASHA: Aye, sir. 
PICARD: It seems we are becoming detectives, Number One.

[Hydraulics room]

(It's dark) 
LAFORGE: Not much left of this drill. 
(Data scans something in one of the tunnels, and a little light flashes
in his face) 
DATA: Geordi, I need some visual assistance. 
LAFORGE: Whoa. What is it? Nothing but basic elements. Inorganic. No
carbon. Sandy texture. Those flashes are almost musical. I see colour
variations and rhythms in complex harmonies. 
DATA: Speculation. Could it be alive? 
LAFORGE: How could it be alive? It's inorganic. 
DATA: Whatever it is, it could be what they are covering up, and the
reason someone killed Malencon.

Captain's log, supplemental. On my order, Data's
startling discovery of a possible life form has been beamed aboard so
that its true nature might be uncovered. But unlike life on Earth and
elsewhere, it appears to be completely inorganic.

[Medical lab]

(The stuff from the tunnel walls is in a bell jar) 
CRUSHER: A test for inorganic life. 
DATA: It's never been done, Doctor. 
CRUSHER: There are basic definitions for organic life. Must have the
ability to assimilate, respirate, reproduce, grow and develop, move,
secrete and excrete. 
PICARD: Would any of those apply here? 
CRUSHER: Perhaps growth and development. 
DATA: Reproduction? 
CRUSHER: Yes. Those two may be basic for any definition of life,
organic or inorganic. 
PICARD: Well, Doctor, you're charging unknown seas. How do we proceed? 
CRUSHER: As we're dealing with a fundamental question, let's use the
basic scientific method. Observe, theorise and attempt to prove it.
Activate. Let's be sure of what we're dealing with. Is the sample
organic? 
COMPUTER: Negative carbon. Negative known life components. Substance
inorganic. 
DATA: Recheck analysis, please. 
COMPUTER: Rechecking. Analysis verified. Not organic. 
CRUSHER: Magnify to screen. Factor five. Hold surface. Factor ten. 
(Something microscopic within the structure is pulsing) 
PICARD: What are we looking at? 
WESLEY: It's really beautiful, whatever it is. 
PICARD: What's that hum? 
DATA: It started after Doctor Crusher ordered the scanner to magnify. 
CRUSHER: Computer, de-magnify. Resume normal scan. 
(The hum continues) 
PICARD: Everyone stand back. 
(It gets quieter) 
CRUSHER: Step back again) 
(And quieter) 
CRUSHER: It's us. 
PICARD: Yes, we're causing it. Why? 
DATA: Unknown. But it is definitely reacting to our presence. Perhaps
it is picking up the electrical impulse of our systems. 
WESLEY: The flashes haven't changed. Could the hum be connected to the
flashing? 
CRUSHER: Computer, magnify. What is the magnification? 
COMPUTER: Twenty five hundred diameters. 
CRUSHER: Analyse the pattern of the flashes. 
COMPUTER: Not repetitive or sequential. Pattern not recognised. 
CRUSHER: What is the source of the flashes? 
COMPUTER: Unable to specify. Theoretically not possible from this
substance. 
CRUSHER: Disregard incongruity and theorise as to source. 
COMPUTER: Life.

[Ready room]

MANDL: What do you mean a life form?! What life
form?! A Federation recon expedition certified Velara Three lifeless. 
PICARD: Understandable, given this particular life form's novel nature.

MANDL: What is that nature? 
PICARD: Doctor Crusher is still making her determination. Mister Mandl,
you know the Prime Directive. 
MANDL: Are you saying that I knowingly defied it? 
PICARD: That's what I have to find out. You're a man obsessed with what
you do. Who knows what an obsessed man will do to keep going? Kill,
perhaps? 
MANDL: I create life. I don't take it. 
(Mandl storms out, insulted) 
RIKER: You hit him pretty hard, Captain. 
PICARD: What do you think, Counsellor? 
TROI: It was useful. I felt two levels. He did know about the life
form, but the idea of murder seemed to shock him. Whether it was the
whole idea, or just being accused of it, I can't tell. 
PICARD: What about his file, Lieutenant Yar? Could he have accomplished
the reprogramming that Data says took place? 
TASHA: Mandl holds advanced degrees in computer science as well as
artificial intelligence. It's possible. 
PICARD: What about the others? Including the victim. 
TASHA: Only the victim had the required expertise. Malencon did work
where the whatever it is was found. Trying to suppress that knowledge
would be motive for murder, if Mandl were obsessed enough. 
TROI: Terraformers are often obsessive. It frequently goes with the
career profile. 
RIKER: How do you read the designer? 
TROI: She's possessed of highly abstracted reality. Lovely visions,
little data. You might do better than I.

[Luisa's quarters]

(Luisa has been crying when the door bell rings) 
LUISA: It's not locked. 
RIKER: Mind a visitor? 
LUISA: Is it true? Did you really find a life form? 
RIKER: The debate is still going on in some quarters, but I think so,
yes. 
LUISA: What's it like? 
RIKER: We have nothing we can compare it with. It's microscopic. It
seems colonial, simple. But it's inorganic. Which is why the recon
scouts missed it. It was not your mistake. 
LUISA: Everything I've worked so hard for is falling apart. 
RIKER: Luisa, it's very beautiful. I could arrange for you to see it if
you like. 
LUISA: Perhaps later.

