TROI VOICE LAFORGE WORF TASHA PICARD LUISA RIKER BENSEN COMPUTER MANDL CREWWOMAN CRUSHER DATA

[Observation Lounge]

PICARD: Director Mandl, I put it to you again. What
do you know about these life forms? 
MANDL: Not a thing. 
PICARD: Enough! Sit down, Lieutenant. You are deliberately evasive and
it must stop. You have kept information from me since our first
communication. An alien life form has taken possession of my Medical
Lab. You knew of its existence. 
MANDL: Yes. 
LUISA: Is this true? You knew there was life on Velara Three? 
MANDL: I knew that there were random energy patterns, yes, I knew that.
But not life. Not by any definition I have ever heard. 
TROI: But you tried to keep that knowledge from us. 
MANDL: No! They are meaningless silicon crystals, which rebroadcast
sunlight. 
PICARD: It is a life form and it has intelligence. 
MANDL: Why do you say that? 
PICARD: It's trying to communicate with us. 
MANDL: Communicate with you? 
PICARD: When did you first become aware of them? 
BENSEN: Tell them about the pattern in the sand. 
PICARD: Oh, yes. Do tell us. 
BENSEN: When we first arrived, we noticed that in certain areas the
sand had a sparkling effect, like sunlight bouncing off new fallen snow.
PICARD: What did you think it was? 
BENSEN: Honestly, we did not give it any thought. 
MANDL: Picard, I must point out again that we were assured, not once
but many times, by the best scientific minds in the Federation, that
this planet has no life. No life! And we were not looking, and
therefore we did not see. 
PICARD: All right. At first you dismissed it. But then you began to
understand that there was something that was different about them. 
MANDL: You can't know that. 
PICARD: Your apprehension suggested it, when we first arrived. Tell me
about these patterns. 
BENSEN: At first we thought it was just a natural phenomenon unique to
Velara Three. 
MANDL: Refraction and a thin atmosphere is interesting, but certainly
not life. 
LUISA: Why was I never told about this? 
MANDL: Because it's not particularly important. 
BENSEN: As the building of the terraforming station went forward, the
patterns in the sand ceased being random and became very specific.
Geometric shapes suddenly appearing, disappearing, changing location,
changing size. 
PICARD: Did you ever feel that these patterns were attempting to
communicate? 
MANDL: No, never. 
PICARD: Bensen? 
BENSEN: I don't know. At the time, I didn't think so. But now, after
hearing what you just said. Now, I don't know. 
RIKER [OC]: Captain, we've regained magnification of the life form.
It's divided again. 
PICARD: Patch visual to Observation lounge.
(Eight round things with a bar pattern are on the screen) 
MANDL: There was no indication of any of this on Velara Three. 
BENSEN: Absolutely none. 
[Bridge]

(working at the rear science stations) 
WORF: I cannot understand the patterns. 
LAFORGE: Neither can I. 
DATA: Please show me the spectral analysis magnification twelve K. 
COMPUTER: Silicon. Germanium. 
DATA: Transistor material. 
COMPUTER: Gallium arsenide. 
LAFORGE: Emits light when charged. 
COMPUTER: Cadmium selenide sulfide. 
DATA: Emits charge when lit. 
COMPUTER: Water, impurities, sodium salts. 
WORF: Conductor. But is it alive?! 
COMPUTER: Probability positive. 
WORF: I wasn't asking you. 
CREWWOMAN [OC]: Engineering to Bridge. 
RIKER: This is Commander Riker, go ahead. 
[Engineering]

CREWWOMAN: The backup on the lab seal is
fluctuating, sir. I think you should come down here. 
[Bridge]

RIKER: On my way. Data, you've got the Bridge.
Inform the Captain.

[Engineering]

RIKER: Status, Ensign? 
CREWWOMAN: The quarantine seal is getting weaker. Every time I try to
redirect backup it goes somewhere else. I think I've. No, it's locked
three people in a turbolift and two more in the programmers' rest room.

RIKER: If that reading is right, there is no seal. Give me lab interior
image. 
CREWWOMAN: Yes, sir. 
RIKER: Magnify. 
(The bell jar flares again, and the light gets brighter and pulses more
quickly) 
RIKER: Picard, this is Riker. 
[Observation lounge]

PICARD: We see it too, Number One. 
(Static charges flare from the bell jar) 
PICARD: Get that seal back up. 
[Engineering]

CREWWOMAN: Sir, no matter what I do, the energy
goes somewhere else. What if it hits the Sickbay, or nursery? 
RIKER: Hold off. Impossible, Captain. 
[Observation lounge]

RIKER [OC]: We haven't got the power.

Captain's log, supplemental. The life form, which
has significantly increased in size, is again attempting to communicate
with us. 
[Bridge]

DATA: The Universal Translator is coming on line,
sir. 
VOICE: Ugly, ugly giants bags of mostly water 
PICARD: Bags of mostly water? 
DATA: An accurate description of humans, sir. You are over ninety per
cent water surrounded by a flexible container. 
CRUSHER: Life force, do you understand us? 
VOICE: We understand. We ask you that you be gone. We call. We talk.
You not listen. 
PICARD: We didn't hear you. We come in peace. 
VOICE: Ugly bags of mostly water, we try at peace. You still do not
listen. Bags who drill in sands of home have to die. 
RIKER: It killed Malencon. 
TROI: We see and hear you now. We didn't know you were there. You are
beautiful to us. All life is beautiful. 
VOICE: Bag in dome did know. Caused much death. Made us kill. War is
now with you. 
DATA: The translator is now offline, sir. 
PICARD: Can you hear us now? (the ship shakes) Mister La Forge? 
LAFORGE: Restabilising, Captain. 
DATA: Sir, that chaos when we were studying it in the lab must have
been the energy surge of a reproductive cycle.
It is now a colony of single cells which organize as a computer. And
like any computer 
PICARD: More is stronger. 
(The ship shakes again) 
Captain's log, supplemental. We have regained
visual contact with the lab, but our attempts to restore communication
with this microbrain, as we have come to call it, has been
unsuccessful. One thing that is certain, however. This life form has
declared war on us.

[Bridge]

RIKER: Their range of influence appears to be
concentrated in the Medical Lab, Captain. 
TASHA: All non-essential personnel have been moved to the most distant
areas of the ship, sir. 
PICARD: Data, any analysis of those bolts of light it emits? 
DATA: That seems to be it's method of reprogramming, Captain. Each bolt
of light consists of negatively and positively charged ions. A series
of programme instructions, as it were. It seems to have a quicker
rapport with our computers than we have. 
WORF: What do you expect? It is computer. 
PICARD: Have we disabled the Medical Lab computer console? 
RIKER: Aye, sir. As soon as Data determined the microbrain's method of
operation. 
LAFORGE: Captain, picking up a decrease in infra-red intensity. 
WORF: Maybe the life-form has reached its energy level. 
CRUSHER: Or maybe that's not the end of it. With single-celled life
forms, at least organic ones, cell division is preceded by a resting
state. 
RIKER: The calm before the storm? 
PICARD: Medical Lab on main viewer. Let's use this calm. 
DATA: It does seem dormant, Captain. 
PICARD: Tasha, set coordinates to beam it back where it came from. 
TASHA: Coordinates set, sir. 
PICARD: Energise. 
(They see the transporter effect try to take hold and then be repulsed)

LAFORGE: Transporter power being redirected, sir. We are unable to
affect it. 
PICARD: Life form or not, intelligent or not , the safety of this ship
and everyone aboard her is my primary responsibility. Data, evacuate
all the air from the Medical Lab. I want a vacuum there. 
DATA: Environmental systems fail to respond to command, Captain. It
appears the microbrain has successfully interfaced with our computers. 
[Observation Lounge]

MANDL: Picard, if it did try to communicate with
us, we didn't understand that. 
PICARD: It has declared a state of war and we are on the defensive. We
have no control over our Medical Lab nor our computer. At this moment
it has the power to destroy this ship and everybody on it. I need your
help. 
MANDL: Unbelievable.
PICARD: It said you killed some of them. I need to know how. 
MANDL: I don't know. 
PICARD: What was Malencon doing when he was killed? 
LUISA: There is a very thin layer of highly saline water under the
sandy top soil. He was siphoning that off. 
CRUSHER: Perhaps somehow that saline water sustained them. 
DATA: It connected them. 
LUISA: I don't understand. 
CRUSHER: The microbrains may be like our own brain cells. Individually,
a cell has life but not intelligence. Yet when interconnected, their
combined intelligence is formidable. 
DATA: The saline fluid is their circuitry, and to prevent its loss,
they killed Malencon. 
LUISA: If we had continued to remove that water, we would have
destroyed them all. 
PICARD: Reason enough for anyone to go to war. 
RIKER [OC]: Captain, it's happening again. I think you'd better get in
here. 
