TROI MALENCON TASHA LAFORGE RIKER BENSEN LUISA MANDL DATA BENSON

[Control room]

(The team beam into the Terraforming base control
room) 
LUISA: Welcome to Velara Three. Please. I want you to remember it as it
is now, because in a couple of decades you won't recognise it. Luisa
Kim. Gardener of Edens. 
RIKER: Commander William Riker, USS Enterprise. This is Counsellor
Troi, Lieutenant Yar, Lieutenant La Forge, Lieutenant Commander Data. 
LUISA: Arthur Malencon, hydraulics specialist, (bald, middle-aged) and
Bjorn Benson, Chief Engineer. (younger, blond) 
BENSON: An android? 
TASHA: And third in command of the Enterprise. 
BENSEN: Where were you manufactured? Are there others like you? 
DATA: Both matters are subjects of protracted discussion. 
BENSEN: Remarkable. Excuse me. 
(The two men go back to work) 
LUISA: We don't get many visitors. It's exciting to have you here. 
RIKER: We weren't sure how we would be received. Director Mandl was
less than enthusiastic about our interest. 
LUISA: I should apologise for him. We are at a critical phase. Usually
he's quite charming. 
RIKER: We'll try to stay out of the way. We've never seen a
terraforming station, and we appreciate the opportunity. 
LUISA: How much do you know about the process? 
DATA: Theories, reports, but nothing first-hand. 
LUISA: Oh, wonderful. Let me show you what we do. Newcomers find this 
TROI: The other two are secretive, but she is as open as she appears. 
LUISA: What we're doing is so exciting, so inspiring. We take a
lifeless planet and little by little transform it into an M class
environment, capable of supporting life. Terraforming makes you feel a
little god-like. The first phase involves selecting the planet. That's
very important. It must have the right mass and gravity, the correct
rate of rotation, and a balanced day and night. The planet must also be
without life or the prospect of life
developing naturally. The Federation determines if that's so. Then, we
take over. This station is phase two. Phase Three involves water.
Usually we create basins using hydraulic landscaping, but the water on
this planet is subsurface, and extremely high in salt content. We are
just about to begin pumping and filtering the water, removing the salt,
oxygenating and replacing. Next, we introduce micro-organisms, and when
the process is complete eventually, we'll have a lush, arable,
biosphere. 
(in 30-35 years according to her display) 
RIKER: You make it sound poetic. 
LUISA: I think it's the best job in the universe. 
DATA: The efficiency of your hydraulic landscaping is quite elegant. 
MALENCON: It isn't yet, but it will be. Right now I'm disturbed by
erratic power surges in several of the servo-mechanisms that control
the hydraulic probes. 
LAFORGE: Could it be the increased conductivity caused by the high
saline content? 
MALENCON: That was my first thought, but I 
BENSEN: Arthur. The factors do not support that conclusion. 
(Mandl enters) 
MANDL: I'm Director Mandl, and I'm sorry about having been so abrupt
during our initial contact. Being isolated, one tends to forget the
social graces. Are you seeing everything that you want? 
TROI: What you're doing here is miraculous. 
MANDL: What we are doing here is working a difficult and demanding
timetable, and there will be no miracle unless Malencon here gets the
hydraulic probes back on line. We are set to step up to full conversion
immediately. Shouldn't you be in the hydraulic chamber, Arthur? 
MALENCON: Now? 
MANDL: Yes. 
MALENCON: All right, Kurt. 
DATA: Geordi, this appears to be the master subsurface pump. 
LAFORGE: You're right. Very impressive. 
DATA: This is interesting. The water table is a thin ribbon between the
sandy surface layer and the rocks below. 
LAFORGE: And those two surfaces follow that contour so precisely, the
water maintains a consistent depth between them. 
DATA: Which would require extreme precision from the probe controls. 
MANDL: Here we have something which may be of interest to you. A
vegetation graph. It is really the key centre for successful
terraforming. 
RIKER: Incredible. It's planned month by month, decade by decade? 
MANDL: Every single thing is specific and exact. You see grand,
romantic concepts. I see unyielding rock under an ocean of sand. 
TROI: Commander! 
RIKER: What is it, Deanna? 
TROI: Malencon. He's in trouble! 
MALENCON [OC]: Help! Help! Argh! 
(Screams and bangs.They run to the hydraulics room door) 
RIKER: Can you open it? 
MANDL: It's jammed. 
(A last scream, and then quiet. The door opens to reveal a burnt body
and a cylinder with a smoking hole in it. There is a laser in the room)

First Officer's log, stardate 41464.3. What began
as a routine visit to a terraforming site has turned into something far
more serious. Arthur Malencon, the hydraulics engineer, has been
critically injured by a laser drill which appears to have
malfunctioned.

