RIKER MELIAN LAFORGE PICARD RADUE HARRY ACCOLAN DATA KATIE

[Bridge]

RADUE [on viewscreen]: Captain, we want you to
understand the nature of your choice. A small demonstration of our
power. 
(Something whizzes around the planet and knocks the Enterprise spinning
out of orbit, into deep space)
PICARD: What was that? 
DATA: I believe it was a repulsor beam. 
PICARD: Position report. 
LAFORGE: This is unbelievable, sir. According to my calculations, we're
three days from Aldea. At warp nine. 
RIKER: And they call that a small demonstration? 
PICARD: Geordi, get us back to Aldea. Warp nine. 
LAFORGE: Aye, sir. 
RADUE [on viewscreen]: Captain, if you don't accept our terms, the
Enterprise will be pushed so far away that by the time you return, your
children will be grandparents.

Captain's log, stardate 41512.4. We are twenty
hours away from Aldea, and no closer to a solution. Their deliberate
show of force pushed us out of orbit and could have easily
disintegrated the ship. 
[Music Unit]

(Melian is showing Katie how to play his electronic
instrument) 
MELIAN: Now, hold it a little bit more firmly. That's it. Perfect. Now
think. No, think's not right. Feel the notes inside your head. 
(She closes her eyes, and the machine lights up with a loud chord. She
drops it)
KATIE: I'm sorry. Did I break it? 
MELIAN: No, it's all right. You can't break this. 
KATIE: It did exactly what I thought. I mean, felt. 
MELIAN: Yes, it's a direct expression of the music within. Now we just
have to teach you to structure that feeling. Try it again. 
(She produces a melancholy little tune) 
MELIAN: That was beautiful. Now, play something happier. 
KATIE: That's not the way I feel. I don't want to do this any more.

[Artist's Unit]

ACCOLAN: You see, Harry, I told you you were going
to be an artist. 
HARRY: Are you sure? Did I really do this? 
ACCOLAN: Oh, yes. Your talent has always been there. The sculpting tool
is just helping you develop it. It's what you were meant to do. 
HARRY: You mean I don't have to take calculus anymore? 
ACCOLAN: You don't have to do anything you don't want to do. What's
calculus? 
HARRY: Nothing important. Can I do some more?

PICARD: Captain's log, supplemental. It has been
three days since the Aldeans pushed us away. We have had no contact
with Radue since then.

