RADUE MELIAN TASHA PICARD HARRY RIKER LEDA WESLEY RASHELLA DUANA CUSTODIAN ACCOLAN DATA KATIE

[First Unit]

(Two other couples are waiting) 
RADUE: Come in. Don't be alarmed. The other children have been assigned
to their units. 
WESLEY: Units? 
RADUE: A unit is a group where those of similar talents and interests
live together. 
WESLEY: Do you mean like a family. 
RADUE: Yes, you could call it that. 
WESLEY: We already have families. Does Captain Picard know you're doing
this? 
RADUE: We are keeping nothing from him. 
LEDA: We have been waiting for you so long, Harry. We are artists, just
like you. We see within you the potential of what you can be. 
HARRY: I'm not an artist. 
ACCOLAN: You will be. And a great one. 
LEDA: This way. (they step into an alcove) Unit B, three seven five. 
(and they vanish) 
RADUE: Katie. 
MELIAN: (an old man) I am honoured. 
KATIE: Thank you. 
RADUE: Melian is the foremost musician on Aldea. 
MELIAN: Music speaks its own language. I know we'll have much to learn
from each other. Don't worry, Katie, you'll be seeing Wesley soon. 
(Katie and Melian leave) 
WESLEY: What about me? Don't I get a say in this? 
RADUE: Wesley, sometimes something happens which you just must accept.
You and the other children are now members of this society. That will
not change. It is up to you to make the transition as easy as possible
for the others. It's your duty, because you are their leader. Help them
to accept it because nothing you, or those on the starship can do will
change it. Because like you, we also have no choice. 
(Alexandra and Rashella come running in, playing) 
RADUE: Where have you been Rashella? Zena and Aran are waiting to take
Alexandra. 
RASHELLA: No. 
RADUE: No? I told you that she 
RASHELLA: No, Radue. They can't have her. I will never let her go.

[Bridge]

PICARD: Any response from Aldea, Lieutenant? 
TASHA: Not yet, sir. 
RIKER: Captain, Data has found something interesting. The Aldean shield
gives evidence of random fluctuations, weakening its structure in
isolated sections. 
PICARD: You're saying there are holes in their defence system? 
RIKER: In essence, yes. I find it surprising after all these eons that
the Aldeans' have not perfected their technology. One would assume they
would be aware of the weakness and repair it. 
PICARD: Can we beam down an away team through one of those holes? 
RIKER: It's a possibility. It would have to be perfectly timed, and
there's no guarantee. 
DATA: We may be more successful in deciphering the code they use to
transport through the magnetic shield. 
PICARD: Can you do that? 
DATA: Eventually, sir. I am working on it now but the number of
permutations is almost endless. 
PICARD: Keep trying. While he's doing that, Number One, I want you and
La Forge to try and find some way of getting through one of those
holes, because one way or the other we have got to get an away team on
the planet, locate the power source for the shield and neutralise it. 
RIKER: You're certain they'll negotiate? 
PICARD: Oh, they'll negotiate, or they'll call it that. They've taken
what they want. Now they'll rationalise it by throwing us some sort of
bone. 
RIKER: And when we don't accept their offer? 
PICARD: The minute they believe that we won't accept their compensation
for the children, they'll break off the discussion, they'll disappear
behind their shield, locking us out and the children in forever. That's
why I've got to keep them talking.

[Custodian room]

(There are hexagonal screens on the walls, a single
console, and some chairs around the edge of the room) 
DUANA: Custodian, Wesley Crusher's voice will be entered into the
authorised file for Third Level clearance. 
CUSTODIAN: Proceed, Duana. 
DUANA: Announce yourself to the Custodian. 
WESLEY: Hello, Custodian. I am Wesley Crusher. 
CUSTODIAN: Hello, Wesley. Your voice will now activate Third Level
clearance. 
WESLEY: What does that mean? 
CUSTODIAN: You may ask any questions you wish. 
WESLEY: Thank you. Duana, what does the Custodian do? 
DUANA: It frees us from all burden. It takes care of all our needs. It
regulates our lives. 
WESLEY: Who built it? 
DUANA: The Progenitors. 
WESLEY: When? 
DUANA: Oh, hundreds of centuries ago. 
WESLEY: What is its power source? 
DUANA: Wesley, why is that important? It does what we ask it. It always
has. What difference does it make how it works? 
WESLEY: If you don't know how it works, then how can you repair it? 
DUANA: Why would we want to repair it? 
WESLEY: From time to time, every computer, I mean Custodian, requires
maintenance. 
DUANA: Wesley, Radue is right. You ask questions I can't answer. Ask
the Custodian instead. 
WESLEY: Custodian, can you show me where Harry is? 
CUSTODIAN: Yes. 
WESLEY: Custodian, show me Harry. 
(on the little screen, Harry is having his first go with the sculpting
laser on a block of wood. Sawdust flies everywhere) 
HARRY [on screen]: I never did this before. It's fun. 
WESLEY: You are going to make him into a sculptor? 
DUANA: He already is. He was just never encouraged properly. The tool
Leda is giving him will allow him to bring out his visions. 
WESLEY: It will take him years to learn to do that. 
DUANA: Oh, no. It will happen quite quickly. 
WESLEY: Custodian, show me Alexandra. 
(She and Rashella are playing with a 3d hologram controlled by a
joystick) 
WESLEY: Custodian, show me Mason. 
DUANA: Stop, Custodian. We must work now. There is much to learn. 
(Wesley looks at the door with the symbol on it) 
WESLEY: What's in there? The power source? 
DUANA: I don't know. It's forbidden. 
Captain's log, supplemental. We remain in orbit
around Aldea. It's becoming all too evident that talk will not effect
the return of our children. We must neutralise the Aldean shield. Until
then, we are helpless. 
