TROI LAFORGE WORF TASHA PICARD RADUE WESLEY RIKER RASHELLA CRUSHER DATA RADUE [on viewscreen]
begin peace sale understand sorry strong playing aldea speak

[Bridge]

WESLEY: How do they cloak the planet? 
DATA: The theory is simple. The shield bends light rays around the
planet's contour, similar to the Romulan cloaking device. But the
implementation is quite difficult. 
(A golden beam starts to sweep the Bridge) 
WORF: Captain! 
PICARD: Data, what do you read? 
DATA: Some sort of scanning device, sir. 
(It holds on Wesley) 
PICARD: Don't touch him! 
LAFORGE: This beam is emanating from Aldea. 
PICARD: Shields up. La Forge, contact Commander Riker. Worf, check all
decks. 
TASHA: Shields inoperable, sir. 
DATA: All decks being probed in a methodical pattern, sir. 
PICARD: All decks? Everything? The entire ship? 
DATA: Aye, sir. 
LAFORGE: I can't reach the Commander. We're being blocked. 
(The beam vanishes) 
PICARD: Wesley, are you all right? 
WESLEY: It was scary at first, but I really didn't feel anything. 
WORF: Sir, similar incidents all decks, but only with the children.

[First Unit]

RADUE: Yes, we are an ancient power, Commander, but
we've suffered for it. Our history is littered with the deaths of those
Aldeans who wanted more and more things. Nothing was ever enough. So
we've evolved a very simple way of living. For whatever is taken,
something is given in return. 
RIKER: It seems an equitable code. 
RADUE: It's brought us peace. Unfortunately, there are very few of us
left to enjoy it. 
TROI: Why? 
RADUE: That is part of what we wish to discuss. We need help from the
Federation to rebuild our heritage. We need a younger generation,
strong and healthy, following in the Aldean traditions. 
RIKER: I don't understand. How can the Federation help influence your
children in your traditions? 
RADUE: Because we have no children, Commander. Rashella was the last
child born on this planet. 
CRUSHER: And your medical community can do nothing? 
RASHELLA: They've tried, Doctor Crusher. And failed. 
CRUSHER: Perhaps we can help. 
RIKER: Radue, exactly why were we invited here? 
RADUE: We propose a trade. One which will solve our problem and give
something back to the Federation. 
RIKER: And the nature of this trade? 
RADUE: We need some of your children. In payment, we will give you
information that would take you centuries to acquire. 
TROI: That might be acceptable to some other races, but humans are
unusually attached to their offspring. 
CRUSHER: Our children are not for sale at any price. 
RIKER: We sympathise with your situation, but what you ask is not
possible. 
RADUE: And that's your final answer? 
RIKER: That's my only answer. Now if there's some other way we can help
you. 
RADUE: I am sorry you are intransigent. 
(Rashella beams them away)

[Bridge]

LAFORGE: Still no response, sir. 
(The away team return, and Wesley vanishes) 
CRUSHER: Wesley! They've taken my son. 
(all over the ship, children are disappearing. Alexandra while playing
at her mother's feet, Katie while playing a musical instrument) 
WORF: Captain, Saucer Section reports six more children are gone. 
RIKER: It's the children. That's why we've been brought here. That's
what they wanted. 
PICARD: And that's what they have. Status. 
TASHA: Aldean shield still up. Hailing frequencies open. No response. 
PICARD: Keep trying. Counsellor, you'll have to gather the parents. 
TROI: They'll need to speak to you as well, Captain. 
RADUE [on viewscreen]: Captain, your children are with us. My word of
honour, no harm will ever come to them. 
PICARD: Harm has already come to them. 
RADUE [on viewscreen]: Captain, let us begin discussions regarding
appropriate compensation. 
PICARD: Compensation? You have stolen our children away from their
classrooms, away from their bedrooms and you talk about compensation?
You claim to be a civilised world and yet you have just committed an
act of utter barbarity! 
RADUE [on viewscreen]: Captain, we will continue these discussions when
you've calmed down. 
