RADUE MELIAN TASHA PICARD RIKER ACCOLAN LEDA WESLEY HARRY RASHELLA DATA KATIE

[Rashella's room]

RASHELLA: There you are! I have you now! 
(She and Alexandra are laughing and happy)

[First Unit]

(Two other couples are waiting) 
RADUE: Come in. Don't be alarmed. The other children have been assigned
to their units. 
WESLEY: Units? 
RADUE: A unit is a group where those of similar talents and interests
live together. 
WESLEY: Do you mean like a family. 
RADUE: Yes, you could call it that. 
WESLEY: We already have families. Does Captain Picard know you're doing
this? 
RADUE: We are keeping nothing from him. 
LEDA: We have been waiting for you so long, Harry. We are artists, just
like you. We see within you the potential of what you can be. 
HARRY: I'm not an artist. 
ACCOLAN: You will be. And a great one. 
LEDA: This way. (they step into an alcove) Unit B, three seven five. 
(and they vanish) 
RADUE: Katie. 
MELIAN: (an old man) I am honoured. 
KATIE: Thank you. 
RADUE: Melian is the foremost musician on Aldea. 
MELIAN: Music speaks its own language. I know we'll have much to learn
from each other. Don't worry, Katie, you'll be seeing Wesley soon. 
(Katie and Melian leave) 
WESLEY: What about me? Don't I get a say in this? 
RADUE: Wesley, sometimes something happens which you just must accept.
You and the other children are now members of this society. That will
not change. It is up to you to make the transition as easy as possible
for the others. It's your duty, because you are their leader. Help them
to accept it because nothing you, or those on the starship can do will
change it. Because like you, we also have no choice. 
(Alexandra and Rashella come running in, playing) 
RADUE: Where have you been Rashella? Zena and Aran are waiting to take
Alexandra. 
RASHELLA: No. 
RADUE: No? I told you that she 
RASHELLA: No, Radue. They can't have her. I will never let her go.

[Bridge]

PICARD: Any response from Aldea, Lieutenant? 
TASHA: Not yet, sir. 
RIKER: Captain, Data has found something interesting. The Aldean shield
gives evidence of random fluctuations, weakening its structure in
isolated sections. 
PICARD: You're saying there are holes in their defence system? 
RIKER: In essence, yes. I find it surprising after all these eons that
the Aldeans' have not perfected their technology. One would assume they
would be aware of the weakness and repair it. 
PICARD: Can we beam down an away team through one of those holes? 
RIKER: It's a possibility. It would have to be perfectly timed, and
there's no guarantee. 
DATA: We may be more successful in deciphering the code they use to
transport through the magnetic shield. 
PICARD: Can you do that? 
DATA: Eventually, sir. I am working on it now but the number of
permutations is almost endless. 
PICARD: Keep trying. While he's doing that, Number One, I want you and
La Forge to try and find some way of getting through one of those
holes, because one way or the other we have got to get an away team on
the planet, locate the power source for the shield and neutralise it. 
RIKER: You're certain they'll negotiate? 
PICARD: Oh, they'll negotiate, or they'll call it that. They've taken
what they want. Now they'll rationalise it by throwing us some sort of
bone. 
RIKER: And when we don't accept their offer? 
PICARD: The minute they believe that we won't accept their compensation
for the children, they'll break off the discussion, they'll disappear
behind their shield, locking us out and the children in forever. That's
why I've got to keep them talking.

