TROI REMMICK RIKER LAFORGE

[Ready room]

(Remmick sits himself in the Captain's chair and
gestures Riker to sit too)
REMMICK: If you prefer to stand, fine, Mister Riker. It won't have an
effect on the length of my inquiry. (Riker sits) Now, there are several
seeming discrepancies in the Captain's log. Let's go over them one by
one, shall we? 
RIKER: The Captain's log? 
REMMICK: Yes. To the best of your knowledge, has the Captain ever
falsified a log? 
RIKER: Have you discussed this with him? 
REMMICK: Right now, I'm asking you. 
RIKER: If you want to discuss anything about Captain Picard, you bring
him in here and ask him face to face. 
REMMICK: You are required to answer my questions, Mister Riker, unless
you're trying to cover something up! Now, there are several
discrepancies in the Captain's log. Shall we go over them one by one? 
RIKER: Proceed.

[Engineering]

REMMICK: So, you are saying Captain Picard had no
control over this vessel. He handed it over to Kosinski, who took the
entire crew to the edge of the universe. 
LAFORGE: No, sir. That's not what I'm saying. Now, Kosinski was sent by
Starfleet to improve our warp drive system. Captain Picard was ordered
to take him aboard. 
REMMICK: According to his own logs, his Bridge crew didn't think highly
of Mister Kosinski's theories, yet the Captain allowed him to access to
the engines anyway. Is that true, La Forge? 
LAFORGE: Not exactly, sir. 
REMMICK: One way or the other, La Forge, Picard lost control of this
ship. Is that true? 
LAFORGE: Yes, but that's not how it happened. 
REMMICK: So, the answer is yes.

[Ready room]

REMMICK: Do you believe the captain is emotionally
and psychologically fit for command of this starship? There is nothing
in his history or his personality that would suggest mental lapses? 
TROI: Nothing. 
REMMICK: Not even the Ferengi incident with his old ship, the
Stargazer? 
TROI: He was being controlled by a mind altering machine, Commander.
Without his knowledge. 
REMMICK: I would call that a mental lapse.

