KORRIS RIKER LAFORGE WORF TASHA PICARD KONMEL GIRL CRUSHER DATA KNERA

[Sickbay]

CRUSHER: He's dying. 
(Korris, Konmel and Worf stand over the bed. As the young man breaths
his last, Korris holds his eyelids open. Then they all start a deep
throaty growl, which becomes a roar as they are sure he is dead. Konmel
removes a hook from the boot) 
CRUSHER: Is there any special arrangement you would like for the body? 
KORRIS: It is only an empty shell now. Please treat it as such.

[Corridor]

KONMEL: The opponent that killed Kunivas should
have been an enemy, then his death would have been even more glorious. 
WORF: If the opponent was not an enemy, who was it? Tell me. What
really happened? 
KORRIS: I do not wish to anger you. We are after all, brothers lost
among infidels. Tell me, how is it that you come to this ship, that
uniform? 
WORF: Through an act of kindness. The Romulans attacked the Khitomer
outpost. Everyone was killed. I was buried under the rubble and left
for dead. A human Starfleet officer found me. He took me to his home on
Gault and told his wife to raise me as his son. 
KONMEL: How old were you? 
WORF: Before the age of inclusion. 
KONMEL: That young? 
KORRIS: Gault is a farming colony. 
[Room]

WORF: When my foster brother and I were of age, we
entered the Starfleet Academy. He hated it and returned to Gault. I
stayed. 
KONMEL: You have not spent much time among your own kind. 
WORF: Hardly none. 
KORRIS: So, when the night was still and quiet, and the sound of the
blood rushing through your veins filled your ears, the only way to
silence it was to slip out into the night and, like the hunter that
spawned you, join in the struggle of life and death. You were unable 
KONMEL: And those around you did not understand. You frightened them. 
KORRIS: They shunned you. Cursed you. Called you vile names, and you
knew not why. Even now do you know why you are driven? Why you cannot
relent or repent or confess or abstain? How could you know? There have
been no other Klingons to lead you to that knowledge. 
WORF: Yes. Yes, those feelings are part of me. But I control them. They
do not rule me. 
KORRIS: Yes. To fit in, the humans demand that you change the one thing
that you cannot change. Yet, because you cannot, you do. That too is
the mark of the warrior. You said that I mock you. I do not. I salute
you. 
KONMEL: But against whom do you test yourself? Against what enemy do
you charge into battle? 
WORF: I have been in battle. 
KORRIS: Then you understand. 
WORF: Yes, I do. 
KORRIS: Brother, this peace, this alliance, is like a living death to
warriors like us. 
KONMEL: You're right, we lied to your Commander. We commandeered that
freighter and left the crew behind, and we were in search of a place
where we could live our lives like true Klingons. 
WORF: You did not battle the Ferengi. 
KORRIS: It was one of our own cruisers sent to bring us back. 
WORF: You destroyed a Klingon vessel? 
KORRIS: I did not want to battle our brothers. I had no choice. They
had been corrupted by the illusion of peace. 
KONMEL: They traded our birthright so they could die in their sleep. 
KORRIS: A peace that makes the Klingon heart that beats in my chest
wither and die. Is it permitted for you to show us around this ship? 
WORF: Yes, of course.

[Bridge]

PICARD: And as I watched Worf, it was like looking
at a man that I had never known. 
DATA: Captain, long range sensors indicate another vessel approaching
this area. 
PICARD: Can you identify it? 
DATA: No, sir, not yet. 
PICARD: Keep a close watch on it. So close to the Neutral Zone it can't
be random.

[Engineering]

KONMEL: What magnificent battles we could have at
the helm of this ship. 
WORF: Perhaps your dreams of glory no longer fit the time. They belong
buried with the past. 
KORRIS: Standing here we will never know. Our answer lies out there.
Our instincts will lead us. 
KONMEL: Instincts that have not been dulled by living among civilised
men.

[Bridge]

DATA: I believe, sir, that was the first time
outsiders have witnessed the Klingon death ritual. 
PICARD: I can understand them looking at a dying man's eyes, but the
howling? 
DATA: It was a warning. 
PICARD: To whom? 
DATA: They are warning the dead, sir. Beware, a Klingon warrior is
about to arrive. 
LAFORGE: Captain, that unidentified vessel is approaching us at warp
five. Intersect one hour, sixteen minutes, thirty three seconds. 
PICARD: Can we get a visual? 
LAFORGE: I can try, sir. 
PICARD: Magnify. 
LAFORGE: Hello. 
RIKER: Klingons. 
PICARD: Open hailing frequencies, Lieutenant Yar. 
TASHA: Hailing frequencies open. 
PICARD: Klingon cruiser, this is Captain Jean Luc Picard of the USS
Enterprise. 
K'NERA [on viewscreen]: I am Commander K'Nera. What is your purpose in
this area? 
PICARD: We came to investigate a battle. We rescued three Klingon
survivors. 
K'NERA [on viewscreen]: That is all that is left of the crew of the
cruiser T'Acog? 
PICARD: They were not off the cruiser. They were from the freighter
Batris. The leader is Captain Korris. 
K'NERA [on viewscreen]: You have him on your ship? He is alive? 
PICARD: Yes. 
K'NERA [on viewscreen]: He is a criminal. A renegade, who with two
others stole that freighter, and somehow destroyed the Klingon cruiser
sent to bring them back. We expect the criminals to be delivered into
our custody as soon as we are within transporter range. 
(ends transmission) 
PICARD: Lieutenant Yar, where are they now? 
TASHA: They're with Worf on deck seventeen. 
PICARD: Deck seventeen? 
TASHA: Yes, sir. Near the auxiliary turbolift to the battle bridge.
Shall I alert Lieutenant Worf? 
PICARD: No. Send a security team. 
RIKER: You don't think Worf would allow them access to the battle
bridge? 
PICARD: I think, Number One, we cannot assume anything. 
TASHA: Captain, shall I stay at my tactical position or lead the
security team? 
PICARD: Lead the security team, and, Lieutenant, you understand with
whom you are dealing. 
TASHA: Aye, sir.

[Corridor]

KORRIS: We have heard this ship can separate in
time of battle. 
WORF: Yes. When relieved of its bulk, the Enterprise becomes an
exceptional weapon. 
TASHA: Worf. 
KORRIS: They have come for us. 
TASHA: Step aside. 
WORF: What is the problem? 
TASHA: The Captain wants those two taken into custody. 
KORRIS: Do not let them take us, Worf. Help us. 
KONMEL: Listen to the voice of your blood. You are not of these people.

KORRIS: Yes. Join us. 
(There's a tense moment, then a nearby turbolift opens and a little
girl runs out) 
TASHA: Go back! Please, turn around and go back to your mother. 
(Korris picks the girl up) 
TASHA: Bridge, we have a hostage situation on deck seventeen. 
(Korris glares, and hands the girl to Worf, who gives her to her
mother) 
GIRL: Mommy. 
TASHA: Bridge, this is Lieutenant Yar. Disregard. Situation is under
control. By order of the Captain, you are confined to Security. 
(Korris and Konmel are taken away) 
TASHA: I thought for a minute we had a problem. 
WORF: Oh? 
TASHA: Yes. It looked like Korris was going to hold that little girl as
a hostage. 
WORF: That is not our way. Cowards take hostages. Klingons do not. 
