KORRIS PICARD [OC] RIKER WORF PICARD KONMEL NURSE CRUSHER
available longer aye blood change night agree precipitated really

[Sickbay]

WORF: Debris is still being analysed. 
PICARD: Inform me as soon as it is complete. 
WORF: Aye, sir. 
PICARD: Situation, Doctor. 
CRUSHER: His injuries are very critical. 
PICARD: I am Jean Luc Picard, Captain of this vessel. 
KORRIS: My name is Korris, Captain of the Klingon Defence Force. This
is Lieutenant Konmel. 
PICARD: Would you mind telling me what has happened? 
KORRIS: We were passengers. The Talarians were taking us to outpost M
Zed Five. 
PICARD: What was the ship doing in the Neutral Zone? 
KORRIS: We were attacked without warning by a Ferengi cruiser. During
the course of the battle we must have unknowingly entered the Neutral
Zone. 
WORF: The weapons were not Ferengi. 
KORRIS: What is your name? 
WORF: I am Lieutenant Worf. 
KORRIS: And you are a member of this crew? 
WORF: Yes. 
KORRIS: You are correct. The weapons were Klingon, but the vessel was
Ferengi. 
PICARD: What precipitated the attack? 
KORRIS: I don't know. We were in our quarters. 
KONMEL: The captain of the freighter had no combat experience so he did
not anticipate the first attack, which was nearly fatal. 
KORRIS: We took control with his permission. The Ferengi called for
surrender. I told the Captain to agree to all their terms. We had only
one chance, but I was confident it would be enough. 
KONMEL: As adversaries the Ferengi are not very worthy. 
WORF: Still, your weapons were limited and their ship superior. 
KORRIS: Yes. All we had was an ancient battery of Merculite rockets.
Our only chance was to trick them into lowering their shields. 
KONMEL: We reduced power and lured them in. 
KORRIS: They suspected nothing. 
KONMEL: Then, when they lowered their shields to beam over a boarding
party, we opened fire. 
PICARD: Still, there are some points that I'm not very clear about. 
KORRIS: Captain, we are hungry and tired. 
PICARD: Of course. 
KORRIS: If there is anything else you wish to know about this incident,
we will be available. 
WORF: Permission to show our guests to their quarters, Captain. 
PICARD: Permission granted. 
(Worf, Korris and Konmel leave) 
RIKER: What do you think, Captain? 
PICARD: There's more to this than we've been told. Why was the Talarian
ship so far off course? What was its point of departure? 
RIKER: Why would three Klingon officers hitch a ride on a broken down
freighter? 
PICARD: Contact Starfleet. Find out what they know about Korris and
company. 
RIKER: It'll take forty eight hours for a message to get to Starfleet
on subspace frequency. 
PICARD: They're going to be with us for a while. Let's find out all we
can about them. 
RIKER: Do you think I should have assigned a security team to keep an
eye on our guests? 
PICARD: No. Worf can deal with anything that might arise. How's your
patient, Doctor? 
CRUSHER: Not good. I'll keep you posted.

[Guest Quarters]

KORRIS: Sit, friend. Let us eat. 
KONMEL: (to replicator) O'Mat gri tea and piviots. (a tray with a
bottle and food arrives) 
KORRIS: I did not know there were Klingons serving on human Starfleet
vessels. 
WORF: As far as I know, I am the only one. 
KORRIS: Tell me, what it is like for the hunter to lie down with the
prey? Have they tamed you, or have you always been docile? 
KONMEL: Does it make you gentle? Has it filled your heart with peace? 
KORRIS: Do glorious battles no longer inspire your dreams? 
WORF: Why do you mock me? Why do you wish to anger me? 
KORRIS: Only to see if it is still possible. 
WORF: It is.

[Sickbay]

NURSE: Doctor! I think you'd better come and look
at this. The Klingon's condition is worsening. 
CRUSHER: He's convulsing. Get the hypospray. 
[Guest Quarters]

(The guests are finishing their meal) 
PICARD [OC]: Commander Korris, this is Captain Picard. 
KORRIS: Yes, Captain. 
PICARD [OC]: I am sorry to report your comrade's injuries are beyond
our medical abilities.

[Sickbay]

CRUSHER: He's dying. 
(Korris, Konmel and Worf stand over the bed. As the young man breaths
his last, Korris holds his eyelids open. Then they all start a deep
throaty growl, which becomes a roar as they are sure he is dead. Konmel
removes a hook from the boot) 
CRUSHER: Is there any special arrangement you would like for the body? 
KORRIS: It is only an empty shell now. Please treat it as such.

[Corridor]

KONMEL: The opponent that killed Kunivas should
have been an enemy, then his death would have been even more glorious. 
WORF: If the opponent was not an enemy, who was it? Tell me. What
really happened? 
KORRIS: I do not wish to anger you. We are after all, brothers lost
among infidels. Tell me, how is it that you come to this ship, that
uniform? 
WORF: Through an act of kindness. The Romulans attacked the Khitomer
outpost. Everyone was killed. I was buried under the rubble and left
for dead. A human Starfleet officer found me. He took me to his home on
Gault and told his wife to raise me as his son. 
KONMEL: How old were you? 
WORF: Before the age of inclusion. 
KONMEL: That young? 
KORRIS: Gault is a farming colony. 
[Room]

WORF: When my foster brother and I were of age, we
entered the Starfleet Academy. He hated it and returned to Gault. I
stayed. 
KONMEL: You have not spent much time among your own kind. 
WORF: Hardly none. 
KORRIS: So, when the night was still and quiet, and the sound of the
blood rushing through your veins filled your ears, the only way to
silence it was to slip out into the night and, like the hunter that
spawned you, join in the struggle of life and death. You were unable 
KONMEL: And those around you did not understand. You frightened them. 
KORRIS: They shunned you. Cursed you. Called you vile names, and you
knew not why. Even now do you know why you are driven? Why you cannot
relent or repent or confess or abstain? How could you know? There have
been no other Klingons to lead you to that knowledge. 
WORF: Yes. Yes, those feelings are part of me. But I control them. They
do not rule me. 
KORRIS: Yes. To fit in, the humans demand that you change the one thing
that you cannot change. Yet, because you cannot, you do. That too is
the mark of the warrior. You said that I mock you. I do not. I salute
you. 
KONMEL: But against whom do you test yourself? Against what enemy do
you charge into battle? 
WORF: I have been in battle. 
KORRIS: Then you understand. 
WORF: Yes, I do. 
KORRIS: Brother, this peace, this alliance, is like a living death to
warriors like us. 
KONMEL: You're right, we lied to your Commander. We commandeered that
freighter and left the crew behind, and we were in search of a place
where we could live our lives like true Klingons. 
WORF: You did not battle the Ferengi. 
KORRIS: It was one of our own cruisers sent to bring us back. 
WORF: You destroyed a Klingon vessel? 
KORRIS: I did not want to battle our brothers. I had no choice. They
had been corrupted by the illusion of peace. 
KONMEL: They traded our birthright so they could die in their sleep. 
KORRIS: A peace that makes the Klingon heart that beats in my chest
wither and die. Is it permitted for you to show us around this ship? 
WORF: Yes, of course.

