RIKER CRUSHER LAFORGE WORF TASHA PICARD LOGAN TSU DATA

[Cavern]

PICARD: Doctor. 
(Picard is unhurt, but Beverly is injured) 
[Planet Surface]

TASHA: This one is different. It's anticipating.
Data, I need you. Set your phaser on kill. I'll lead left, you get it. 
(It takes both phasers to destroy it) 
TASHA: Captain? Doctor Crusher? 
DATA: Captain Picard? (the communicator does not beep) I have a
malfunction. 
TASHA: Enterprise, this is Lieutenant Yar. Mine's out too. 
DATA: The close pass by the weapons must have disrupted our
communicators. 
TASHA: Keep on working. I'll look for the Captain and Doctor Crusher.

[Cavern]

CRUSHER: Ow! My arm. 
PICARD: How bad is it? 
CRUSHER: Oh, it's bad. 
PICARD: Come on. Alright, don't worry, we'll get you out of here.
Enterprise, this is the Captain. Two to beam up. Enterprise?
Enterprise, come in. Data? Lieutenant Yar? 
CRUSHER: What's wrong? Why aren't they working? 
PICARD: I don't know. But don't worry. As soon as they realise our
communicators are not working, the sensors will find us and Geordi will
beam us up. Now, just you hold on. I'm sorry about this. 
(He tears her jacket for a bandage) 
PICARD: Hold on, it won't be long. 
CRUSHER: I must keep conscious.

[Planet Surface]

TASHA: Data, I can't find them. 
DATA: Step back, please. I believe I have found it. 
RIKER: Data. 
DATA: All vital signs returning to normal. 
TASHA: Good. Now Geordi can get us out of here. Come on. The Captain
and Doctor Crusher can't be far away. 
[Bridge]

T'SU: Sir, I'm reading life forms on the planet.
All five members of the away team. 
LAFORGE: Good. They must have freed Commander Riker. Transporter Room,
get a lock on the away team and beam them up. 
WORF: Shields just came on. Deflectors also up. I'm picking up an
object off the port bow. It's firing! 
(Enterprise's shields light up from a green beam) 
LAFORGE: Red Alert! Battle stations! We can't the away team beam up
with our shields in place. 
WORF: Phasers ready. Photon torpedoes standing by. Locking on target.
Correction. Target has disappeared. 
LAFORGE: Give me a full scan. 
WORF: Scanning. No readings yet. Wait. Something dead astern. 
LAFORGE: Emergency power to shields! 
WORF: Object is firing. 
LAFORGE: Return fire! 
WORF: No use. It's gone again. SOLIS: Aft shields weakened. Whatever
they're using, our shields can't stand up to it much longer. 
LOGAN [OC]: This is Chief Engineer Logan. Are we breaking orbit? I need
to know now. 
Ship's log, supplemental. Lieutenant La Forge in
command. I am unable to beam up the away team due to an unseen
assailant attacking the ship. To make matters worse, Chief Engineer
Logan is on his way to the Bridge, and he's not paying a courtesy call.

[Bridge]

LOGAN: Why are we still in orbit? We're taking a
beating. 
LAFORGE: We've got to hold out as long as we can. Now, if we can
disable our attacker, if only for a few seconds, we can drop our
shields and beam the away team back aboard. 
LOGAN: If we follow that plan, we'll lose the Enterprise. In view of
the present crisis, I believe you should relinquish command to me. 
LAFORGE: No. 
LOGAN: I outrank you. 
LAFORGE: Mister Logan, I'm in command. 
LOGAN: The Captain did not anticipate the Enterprise would come under
attack. If he had, would he have left the Bridge to you? 
LAFORGE: If he had, he wouldn't have left the ship. 
T'SU: Picking up an object to starboard, sir, heading toward us. 
LAFORGE: Lock phasers on that thing and fire the moment it's in range. 
WORF: Locking in. The object has vanished. 
(The Enterprise is hit again) 
WORF: Phaser lock lost. 
T'SU: Starboard shields weakened. 
WORF: It's cloaked itself. 
LOGAN: You can't fight this thing and win. We've got to break orbit
now. 
LAFORGE: Worf, analyse its firing pattern. Maybe we can anticipate its
location. 
WORF: Aye. Solis, correlate the trajectory of the energy bolts with the
attack path. I'll compute the optimum spread of phasers and photon
torpedoes to hit it. 
LAFORGE: Right. 
LOGAN: Lieutenant La Forge. Geordi. I know you want to do what's best
for the Enterprise. So do I. Now the best thing 
LAFORGE: The best thing, Mister Logan, is for this discussion to end
and for you to return to your duties. Now, I'm in charge until relieved
by Commander Riker or Captain Picard. 
LOGAN: You're ignoring my greater rank and experience. 
LAFORGE: Not at all. In fact, just to opposite. I'm counting on it. Now
I need you to get back down to Engineering and get me every available
scrap of emergency power you can. The more power we can channel to the
shields, the longer we'll be able to hold out. Now, Mister Logan. 
(Logan leaves) 
LAFORGE: Worf, have you got a lock on it yet? 
WORF: It's impossible to be sure.

[Jungle]

TASHA: Maybe you should wait here while Data and I
search for the Captain and Doctor Crusher. 
RIKER: No, I'm a little groggy, but I'll be all right. 
DATA: I am getting energy readings. Look out! 
(They're under attack again) 
TASHA: We'll do it just like before. 
(But there's a difference) 
TASHA: It's got a deflector shield. 
DATA: The product continues to upgrade and improve. 
TASHA: We'll concentrate our fire and try to collapse its shield.
Commander, we'll need you too. 
(It drops it's shield to fire at them) 
TASHA: Now! (Three phasers and it takes some time for it to go boom)
You're right, they keep getting better. 
DATA: The weapons are appearing at intervals of precisely twelve
minutes. 
TASHA: Well this one took everything we had. I don't know how we'll
handle the next one. 
RIKER: We're not going to wait around. Let's find the rest of our team.

