PICARD ARMUS WORF COMPUTER WESLEY

[Planet surface]

(Picard is brought back from the shuttlecraft) 
ARMUS: Satisfied? 
PICARD: Yes. 
ARMUS: Then can we leave? 
PICARD: Where do you want to go? Do you want to try to find those who
left you here? 
ARMUS: She told you about them. 
PICARD: How long have you been here? 
ARMUS: Since they left. A very long time. 
PICARD: A long time to be alone. 
ARMUS: Save your compassion. It's revolting. You offer it like a prize
when in fact it's an insult. 
PICARD: Because you feel unworthy. 
ARMUS: You overrate your gift. You humans are puny, weak. 
PICARD: But our spirit, it is indomitable. 
ARMUS: And still you die from a flake of my power. 
PICARD: A great poet once said, 'all spirits are enslaved that serve
things evil'. 
ARMUS: You do not understand. I do not serve things evil. I am evil. 
PICARD: Oh, no, you are not. 
ARMUS: I am a skin of evil left here by a race of Titans who believed
if they rid themselves of me, they would free the bonds of
destructiveness. 
PICARD: Yes. So here you are. Feeding on your own loneliness. Consumed
by your own pain. Believing your own lies. 
[Bridge]

WORF: Set the computer. When the energy level
reaches two point six point two zero five, automatically beam up Troi
and Prieto. We'll do a parallel transport on the Captain. 
WESLEY: Yes, sir. 
[Planet surface]

PICARD: You say you are true evil? Shall I tell you
what true evil is? It is to submit to you. It is when we surrender our
freedom, our dignity, instead of defying you. 
ARMUS: I will kill you, and those in there. 
PICARD: But you will still be here. In this place. For ever. Alone.
Immortal. 
[Bridge]

COMPUTER: (male) Stand by for parallel transport. 
WORF: The energy level has dropped to two point six point three. 
[Planet surface]

PICARD: That's your real fear. Never to die. Never
again to be united with those who left you here. 
[Bridge]

WORF: Energy field is two point six. Computer
beginning transport.

[Planet surface]

PICARD: I'm not taking you anywhere. 
(Armus screams with rage as Picard is beamed away) 
Captain's log, stardate 41602.1. The shuttlecraft
has been destroyed to prevent any possibility of Armus leaving the
planet. Vagra Two will be declared off limits. But the damage has been
done. One of the saddest duties I've ever had to perform is now ahead
of me.

