PICARD SOBI ROMAS T'JON CRUSHER DATA LANGOR
necessities happening people ill millilitres share open away guest

[Doctor's office]

PICARD: What have you learned? 
CRUSHER: The Brekkians show no sign of infection. The Ornarans show all
the symptoms of a disease but I can't find a cause. 
PICARD: Perhaps it was filtered out by the transporter when they were
beamed aboard? 
CRUSHER: There's no record of it. Then again, the solar flare activity
might have caused a malfunction in the biofilters or their monitors. 
PICARD: Are they going to die? 
CRUSHER: I need to check further, but my instinct says no. 
PICARD: Do you think we are in danger from this plague? 
CRUSHER: Again, I need more time. 
PICARD: There are some missing pieces to this puzzle. 
CRUSHER: What's missing is a little compassion. 
PICARD: Are we losing our professional detachment, Doctor? 
CRUSHER: Perhaps. But Captain, I must tell you, I'm developing a very
active dislike for these Brekkians. 
PICARD: Understandable.

[Sickbay]

T'JON: Captain, you must give us back our cargo. 
PICARD: I can't do that. 
T'JON: Why? It belongs to us. 
PICARD: The Brekkians claim it belongs to them. 
ROMAS: They lie. 
PICARD: That may be so, but it's not my decision. 
ROMAS: We need some now. Now! I don't care if it's your decision. Get
us some. 
T'JON: Captain, what is happening to us, is happening to thousands more
on Ornara. Please understand the magnitude of the problem. 
ROMAS: Your people don't need it. The Brekkians don't need it. Our
people do. 
T'JON: If you don't give it to us, you will be a party to murder, not
only of us, but of an entire civilisation. I'm sorry, I do not mean to
insult you. I'm feeling very shaky. 
ROMAS: We cannot hold out much longer. 
CRUSHER: They believe it will help them. That in itself might control
their symptoms. 
PICARD: I'll talk with the Brekkians. 
T'JON: Thank you, Captain. We appreciate anything you can do.

[Guest quarters]

(Langor and Sobi are relaxing and enjoying a drink
when the doorbell chimes. Picard enters) 
SOBI: May I say, Captain, how impressed we are with your ship and all
its facilities. 
PICARD: Thank you. 
LANGOR: And its crew. Everyone is so efficient and professional. 
PICARD: I am glad you are comfortable. I've come to seek your agreement
to an Ornaran request. 
SOBI: We cannot agree 
LANGOR: Wait. Let the Captain speak. We want to be reasonable. 
PICARD: The two Ornarans are really quite ill and insisting that they
need felicium. 
SOBI: That is not surprising. 
PICARD: Would you object to giving them enough for their own immediate
needs? 
SOBI: Captain, we Brekkians are in business. We are not in the habit of
giving away what has not been paid for. 
PICARD: You would see them die rather than share the medicine? 
LANGOR: We want to be fair, Captain. We agree to permitting them two
dosages for immediate use. 
SOBI: No charge. 
PICARD: I'll let my Medical Officer handle it. 
LANGOR: Captain, I trust you won't mind if we're present while you open
the cargo.

[Cargo bay]

(The barrel is opened and a device lifted from the
top of the powder) 
CRUSHER: What does that device do? 
SOBI: This measures the individual portions. 
(He takes a few grains and puts them into the device) 
CRUSHER: What's the dosage? 
LANGOR: Point zero one millilitres. 
CRUSHER: Very potent substance. 
SOBI: We've improved our distillation process over the years. 
LANGOR: In my grandfather's day, the same amount of felicium would have
filled five rooms this size. 
SOBI: But now with our improved processes, this one barrel contains
over four billion doses. 
DATA: I would estimate four billion, three hundred seventy five million

PICARD: Thank you, Mister Data. 
CRUSHER: How long is the dosage effective? 
LANGOR: It varies with the individual. 
SOBI: But never more than seventy two hours. 
CRUSHER: And then the symptoms return. 
LANGOR: Yes. Unfortunately, there is no cure for the plague. 
SOBI: But felicium inhibits the sickness with total efficiency. 
LANGOR: Allowing the Ornarans to lead normal lives. 
CRUSHER: An unusual disease. Virulent, extremely persistent, yet I
can't isolate it. 
LANGOR: The plague has baffled doctors on both planets for two hundred
years. 
SOBI: We've therefore concentrated on treatment, finding new ways to
improve the potency and purity of felicium. 
DATA: No doubt you have applied your technology from other industries
to the refinement of this product. 
SOBI: We have no other industry. 
PICARD: None at all? 
LANGOR: We don't need any. The Ornarans provide us everything we need
in exchange for this. 
DATA: Fascinating. Your society is dedicated exclusively to the
production of a single product. 
PICARD: A product for which you have no use, but which the Ornarans
can't live without. 
LANGOR: One of the little ironies of life, Captain. 
SOBI: But one we'd be fools not to take advantage of. It's mutually
beneficial. 
LANGOR: The Ornarans provide us with the necessities of life, and we
provide them with the necessities of living. It is a fair exchange. 
PICARD: Interesting relationship. 
CRUSHER: Excuse me. I'll take that to Sickbay.

[Sickbay]

(T'Jon and Romas pounce on the device) 
CRUSHER: Can I help? 
T'JON: No. 
(T'Jon puts a hypo onto the device and sets it going) 
ROMAS: Hurry up! 
(T'Jon injects Romas, then himself. Their shakes vanish and they become
very, very calm and relaxed. Totally blissed out, in fact, man) 
CRUSHER: You're feeling better? 
T'JON: Yes, thank you. I'm fine now.

