TROI LAFORGE TASHA PICARD SOBI TJON ROMAS RIKER DATA LANGOR

[Cargo bay]

T'JON: Thank you. Thank you. We thought we had lost
it. 
SOBI: (the smart man) Careful with your choice of words, T'Jon. It's
ours, not yours. 
T'JON: We paid a fair price for it! 
LANGOR: (the woman) You offered a fair price. We have not received it. 
ROMAS: You accepted our goods in trade! 
SOBI: Then where are they? Tell me. 
T'JON: That's not our problem. 
LANGOR: No more than the barrel is your property. It's as simple as
this. The goods were never delivered. They were destroyed with your
ship. 
SOBI: Hence the deal was incomplete. Hence possession of the felicium
remains ours. 
ROMAS: We need it. 
SOBI: Commander, I request you transport my associate and myself down
to Brekka, with our merchandise. 
T'JON: Yes, get them out of here. But the barrel stays. 
LANGOR: There's no reasoning with you. 
SOBI: Langor, you expect too much from them. You always have, and
you've always been disappointed. You didn't pay for it, therefore it's
not yours. 
T'JON: Damn you, Sobi. 
(T'Jon puts his hand on Sobi's chest and electricity sparks. Sobi
returns the attack. Langor immobilises Romas when he tries to
interfere) 
TASHA: Stop this. Now! 
RIKER: Security to cargo bay eleven. 
(Tasha's phaser separates Sobi and T'Jon) 
TASHA: Behave yourselves, gentlemen. 
(Security arrive) 
TASHA: Escort our visitors to the observation lounge. 
(They leave) 
TASHA: A natural electrical charge? 
RIKER: Formidable. 
TASHA: Yes, and a difficult weapon to confiscate.

[Corridor]

RIKER: I have never seen humanoids with that power.

TASHA: Neither have I. I wonder how it evolved? 
RIKER: I wonder if the strong magnetic field of their sun might have
something to do with it. 
TASHA: Could be. I wonder how much power our guests can produce? 
RIKER: Or if they need to recharge? 
TASHA: That's an interesting ability. The question is, how do I defend
against it? 
RIKER: You think our visitors pose a threat? 
TASHA: I don't know. But if they do, I'd better be ready for it. 
RIKER: Precisely, Lieutenant. 
[Observation Lounge]

T'JON: We have to resolve this soon. There isn't
much time. 
SOBI: What can you offer? 
T'JON: Everything we had went down with the Sanction. 
SOBI: Then it's going to be difficult to accommodate you.

[Bridge]

LAFORGE: Solar flares are increasing in magnitude,
Captain. Shields are shaky, but they're holding. 
PICARD: Maintain. 
(Riker and Tasha enter) 
PICARD: How are our rather quarrelsome guests? 
TASHA: They're waiting for you in the observation lounge, sir. 
PICARD: Data, what information can you give us about the inhabitants of
this system? 
DATA: Not very much, sir. The only recorded contact with the Delos
system was over two hundred years ago. A scout ship reported two
inhabited planets, one of which was on the verge of acquiring space
travel. 
LAFORGE: Odd that in two centuries neither civilisation advanced much
further. 
TROI: Sir, I find it strange that none of our visitors feels much
remorse about the two freighter passengers who perished. Yet that
barrel of cargo is a source of great anxiety to them. 
PICARD: Yes. Let's pay a call, get some answers. Number One, Mister
Data. Mister La Forge, you have the Bridge. 
LAFORGE: Aye, sir. 
[Observation Lounge]

RIKER: Captain, may I present Sobi and Langor from
the planet Brekka, and T'Jon and Romas from Ornara. 
PICARD: I am sorry we couldn't save your ship. 
T'JON: Tell me, you could have repaired it. 
PICARD: Oh, yes. 
T'JON: We have only two left. Neither works properly. They are critical
to our survival. Will you fix them? 
PICARD: Mister Data? 
DATA: Our computer has downloaded the specifications for the magnetic
coils the freighters depend on. Assuming the malfunction is similar,
suitable replacements can be fabricated. 
PICARD: Instruct Engineering to proceed. 
DATA: Aye, sir. 
T'JON: Now, as for our cargo. 
SOBI: Our cargo, Captain. 
ROMAS: Wrong, Sobi. 
PICARD: My First Officer has said that ownership of this cargo is in
dispute, but this question must be settled by whatever legal mechanism
exists between your societies. 
T'JON: Captain, you don't understand. This is a matter of life and
death. 
PICARD: Why is that? What is this cargo? 
T'JON: Medicine. 
PICARD: Indeed? 
ROMAS: Our planet is in desperate need, Captain. We have people
suffering from a lethal plague. 
T'JON: The cargo you have impounded is the only hope of life for our
people. 
PICARD: Is that so? 
SOBI: Yes. 
LANGOR: You must think us heartless brutes, Captain, but look at our
side of it. The plant which yields the medicine felicium grows only in
remote areas of Brekka. 
SOBI: It must be painstakingly cultivated, harvested, purified. A
complex and expensive process. 
LANGOR: That single shipment of felicium represents an enormous
investment. We can't just give it away. 
T'JON: We paid for it. We are asking only for what is ours. 
LANGOR: That is your viewpoint. Ours, of course, differs. 
ROMAS: You are going to hold to that position? 
SOBI: I am constrained to abide by the terms of our agreement. 
ROMAS: Then you condemn us to death! 
T'JON: Romas. 
ROMAS: You disgust me! If you could see the suffering the plague has
caused. Well, you are going to, when you see what it does to us. 
PICARD: Romas, are you and T'Jon carrying this plague? 
ROMAS: Yes. Every Ornaran does. 
PICARD: Then you may have brought it aboard this ship. Was there a
medical scan when they transported? 
RIKER: Unverified. The solar flares could have caused a malfunction in
the biofilter. 
PICARD: Med Alert. Medical emergency. Doctor Crusher to the observation
lounge at once.

