TROI LAFORGE TASHA PICARD SOBI TJON ROMAS RIKER DATA LANGOR

[Transporter room]

(Two scruffy men, one smart man and a smart woman
arrive) 
RIKER: Two are lost, sir. But we saved four. I'm Commander William
Riker of the USS Enterprise. I'm sorry we were unable to rescue the
other two. We did everything we could. If you had come instead of
sending your cargo, you all would have made it. 
T'JON: The cargo. Where is it? 
ROMAS: You did save it, didn't you? 
(The two men are scruffy, with five o'clock shadow) 
RIKER: Yes, we did. It's in one of our cargo holds. You act like it's
more important than your comrades. 
T'JON: The cargo. May we see it? 
RIKER: Follow me.

[Cargo bay]

T'JON: Thank you. Thank you. We thought we had lost
it. 
SOBI: (the smart man) Careful with your choice of words, T'Jon. It's
ours, not yours. 
T'JON: We paid a fair price for it! 
LANGOR: (the woman) You offered a fair price. We have not received it. 
ROMAS: You accepted our goods in trade! 
SOBI: Then where are they? Tell me. 
T'JON: That's not our problem. 
LANGOR: No more than the barrel is your property. It's as simple as
this. The goods were never delivered. They were destroyed with your
ship. 
SOBI: Hence the deal was incomplete. Hence possession of the felicium
remains ours. 
ROMAS: We need it. 
SOBI: Commander, I request you transport my associate and myself down
to Brekka, with our merchandise. 
T'JON: Yes, get them out of here. But the barrel stays. 
LANGOR: There's no reasoning with you. 
SOBI: Langor, you expect too much from them. You always have, and
you've always been disappointed. You didn't pay for it, therefore it's
not yours. 
T'JON: Damn you, Sobi. 
(T'Jon puts his hand on Sobi's chest and electricity sparks. Sobi
returns the attack. Langor immobilises Romas when he tries to
interfere) 
TASHA: Stop this. Now! 
RIKER: Security to cargo bay eleven. 
(Tasha's phaser separates Sobi and T'Jon) 
TASHA: Behave yourselves, gentlemen. 
(Security arrive) 
TASHA: Escort our visitors to the observation lounge. 
(They leave) 
TASHA: A natural electrical charge? 
RIKER: Formidable. 
TASHA: Yes, and a difficult weapon to confiscate.

[Corridor]

RIKER: I have never seen humanoids with that power.

TASHA: Neither have I. I wonder how it evolved? 
RIKER: I wonder if the strong magnetic field of their sun might have
something to do with it. 
TASHA: Could be. I wonder how much power our guests can produce? 
RIKER: Or if they need to recharge? 
TASHA: That's an interesting ability. The question is, how do I defend
against it? 
RIKER: You think our visitors pose a threat? 
TASHA: I don't know. But if they do, I'd better be ready for it. 
RIKER: Precisely, Lieutenant. 
[Observation Lounge]

T'JON: We have to resolve this soon. There isn't
much time. 
SOBI: What can you offer? 
T'JON: Everything we had went down with the Sanction. 
SOBI: Then it's going to be difficult to accommodate you.

[Bridge]

LAFORGE: Solar flares are increasing in magnitude,
Captain. Shields are shaky, but they're holding. 
PICARD: Maintain. 
(Riker and Tasha enter) 
PICARD: How are our rather quarrelsome guests? 
TASHA: They're waiting for you in the observation lounge, sir. 
PICARD: Data, what information can you give us about the inhabitants of
this system? 
DATA: Not very much, sir. The only recorded contact with the Delos
system was over two hundred years ago. A scout ship reported two
inhabited planets, one of which was on the verge of acquiring space
travel. 
LAFORGE: Odd that in two centuries neither civilisation advanced much
further. 
TROI: Sir, I find it strange that none of our visitors feels much
remorse about the two freighter passengers who perished. Yet that
barrel of cargo is a source of great anxiety to them. 
PICARD: Yes. Let's pay a call, get some answers. Number One, Mister
Data. Mister La Forge, you have the Bridge. 
LAFORGE: Aye, sir. 
