PICARD [OC] RIKER WESLEY TASHA PICARD MARGAN [on viewscreen] SOBI ROMAS T'JON CRUSHER DATA LANGOR
necessities cargo based sickbay make bay brought charge sophisticated

[Guest quarters]

(Langor and Sobi are relaxing and enjoying a drink
when the doorbell chimes. Picard enters) 
SOBI: May I say, Captain, how impressed we are with your ship and all
its facilities. 
PICARD: Thank you. 
LANGOR: And its crew. Everyone is so efficient and professional. 
PICARD: I am glad you are comfortable. I've come to seek your agreement
to an Ornaran request. 
SOBI: We cannot agree 
LANGOR: Wait. Let the Captain speak. We want to be reasonable. 
PICARD: The two Ornarans are really quite ill and insisting that they
need felicium. 
SOBI: That is not surprising. 
PICARD: Would you object to giving them enough for their own immediate
needs? 
SOBI: Captain, we Brekkians are in business. We are not in the habit of
giving away what has not been paid for. 
PICARD: You would see them die rather than share the medicine? 
LANGOR: We want to be fair, Captain. We agree to permitting them two
dosages for immediate use. 
SOBI: No charge. 
PICARD: I'll let my Medical Officer handle it. 
LANGOR: Captain, I trust you won't mind if we're present while you open
the cargo.

[Cargo bay]

(The barrel is opened and a device lifted from the
top of the powder) 
CRUSHER: What does that device do? 
SOBI: This measures the individual portions. 
(He takes a few grains and puts them into the device) 
CRUSHER: What's the dosage? 
LANGOR: Point zero one millilitres. 
CRUSHER: Very potent substance. 
SOBI: We've improved our distillation process over the years. 
LANGOR: In my grandfather's day, the same amount of felicium would have
filled five rooms this size. 
SOBI: But now with our improved processes, this one barrel contains
over four billion doses. 
DATA: I would estimate four billion, three hundred seventy five million

PICARD: Thank you, Mister Data. 
CRUSHER: How long is the dosage effective? 
LANGOR: It varies with the individual. 
SOBI: But never more than seventy two hours. 
CRUSHER: And then the symptoms return. 
LANGOR: Yes. Unfortunately, there is no cure for the plague. 
SOBI: But felicium inhibits the sickness with total efficiency. 
LANGOR: Allowing the Ornarans to lead normal lives. 
CRUSHER: An unusual disease. Virulent, extremely persistent, yet I
can't isolate it. 
LANGOR: The plague has baffled doctors on both planets for two hundred
years. 
SOBI: We've therefore concentrated on treatment, finding new ways to
improve the potency and purity of felicium. 
DATA: No doubt you have applied your technology from other industries
to the refinement of this product. 
SOBI: We have no other industry. 
PICARD: None at all? 
LANGOR: We don't need any. The Ornarans provide us everything we need
in exchange for this. 
DATA: Fascinating. Your society is dedicated exclusively to the
production of a single product. 
PICARD: A product for which you have no use, but which the Ornarans
can't live without. 
LANGOR: One of the little ironies of life, Captain. 
SOBI: But one we'd be fools not to take advantage of. It's mutually
beneficial. 
LANGOR: The Ornarans provide us with the necessities of life, and we
provide them with the necessities of living. It is a fair exchange. 
PICARD: Interesting relationship. 
CRUSHER: Excuse me. I'll take that to Sickbay.

[Sickbay]

(T'Jon and Romas pounce on the device) 
CRUSHER: Can I help? 
T'JON: No. 
(T'Jon puts a hypo onto the device and sets it going) 
ROMAS: Hurry up! 
(T'Jon injects Romas, then himself. Their shakes vanish and they become
very, very calm and relaxed. Totally blissed out, in fact, man) 
CRUSHER: You're feeling better? 
T'JON: Yes, thank you. I'm fine now.

[Ready room]

PICARD: Come. 
(Beverly enters, face like thunder) 
PICARD: Doctor. 
CRUSHER: I may not know felicium's full effect on Ornarian physiology,
but I know how to interpret physical reactions. 
PICARD: Are the Ornarans recovering? 
CRUSHER: T'Jon and Romas are feeling fine. In fact, too fine.
Felicium's a narcotic. 
PICARD: Then T'Jon, and Romas, indeed everyone on their world? 
CRUSHER: Is a drug addict.

[Bridge]

RIKER: I think you'll find it's a fascinating tale
that we've come across here, Captain. 
PICARD: You've piqued my interest, Number One. Please continue. 
RIKER: Data, what have we got? 
DATA: Beginning several thousand years ago, the two worlds took
different paths. Ornara became technologically sophisticated, Brekka
did not. Then two hundred years ago, Ornara was stricken by a
devastating plague. 
RIKER: Their advanced technology could provide no solution. 
DATA: Somehow, and there is limited information on this point, the cure
was found in a plant indigenous to only Brekka, and which resisted all
attempts at cultivation on Ornara. 
RIKER: In any case, a trading situation developed which still exists. 
CRUSHER: A nice arrangement for the Brekkians. 
RIKER: And for the Ornarans. Without the medicine, they would all die. 
CRUSHER: No they wouldn't. Despite what the Ornarans have been saying,
it's not a medicine. It was a medicine, but it cured the plague two
hundred years ago. The plague is irrelevant now. It doesn't exist. 
RIKER: Then why are they so desperate for the felicium? 
CRUSHER: It's an addiction. The physical and psychological need is very
real. 
PICARD: Thank you. 
CRUSHER: What are you going to do? 
PICARD: Based on what we know so far, there's nothing I can do. 
CRUSHER: You don't think drug addiction and exploitation is sufficient
cause to do something? 
PICARD: This situation has existed for a very long time. These two
societies are intertwined in a symbiotic relationship. 
CRUSHER: With one society profiting at the expense of the other. 
PICARD: That's how you see it. 
CRUSHER: I can synthesise a non-addictive substitute which will ease
their withdrawal symptoms. 
PICARD: No, I can't do that either. 
CRUSHER: You can't let them have the felicium. 
PICARD: Why? Because it offends against our sensibilities? It is not
our mission to impose Federation or Earth values on any others in the
galaxy. 
CRUSHER: Well in this case, Captain, I disagree, one hundred percent. 
TASHA: Captain, I'm receiving a call from Ornara. The signal is ragged,
but I think I can put it on the viewscreen. 
PICARD: Do it. 
MARGAN [on viewscreen]: I'm Margan. Are my people on board your ship? 
PICARD: Some of them, yes. 
MARGAN [on viewscreen]: May I speak to them? 
PICARD: Yes. Lieutenant Yar, have the Ornarans brought in. No, wait, I
don't want them to have access to the Bridge. We will contact you in a
few minutes. (end transmission) I will continue this in the guest
quarters. Commander, Doctor. 
(Picard, Riker and Crusher leave) 
WESLEY: Data, I can understand how this could happen to the Ornarans.
What I can't understand is why anyone would voluntarily become
dependent on a chemical. 
DATA: Voluntary addiction to drugs is a recurrent theme in many
cultures. 
TASHA: Wesley, no one wants to become dependent. That happens later. 
WESLEY: But it does happen. So why do people start? 
TASHA: On my home planet, there was so much poverty and violence, that
for some the only escape was through drugs. 
WESLEY: How can a chemical substance can provide an escape. 
TASHA: It doesn't, but it makes you think it does. You have to
understand, drugs can make you feel good. They make you feel on top of
the world. You're happy, sure of yourself, in control. 
WESLEY: But it's artificial. 
TASHA: It doesn't feel artificial until the drug wears off. Then you
pay the price. Before you know it, you're taking the drug not to feel
good, but to keep from feeling bad. 
WESLEY: And that's the trap? 
TASHA: All you care about is getting your next dosage. Nothing else
matters. 
WESLEY: I guess I just don't understand. 
TASHA: Wesley, I hope you never do. 
PICARD [OC]: Lieutenant Yar, we're ready in the guest quarters.

