PICARD RIKER DATA 2 PICARD 2 DATA
concentrated going continuum effect understanding second lowered remaining room

[Turbolift]

(Picard, Data and Riker are about to enter) 
DATA: Incidentally, Captain, the effects of the time distortions are
now being felt in the Ilecom system. 
(They enter) 
PICARD: Bridge. In the past decade, Manheim has turned some vague
theories into a practical application. 
RIKER: Yes, but without his help, I'm not sure we'll be able to pose
any intelligent questions, let alone come up with any solutions. 
(The turbolift door opens, and Picard, Data and Riker are about to
enter) 
DATA: Incidentally, Captain, the effects of the time distortions are
now being felt in the Ilecom system. 
PICARD: It's us before we stepped into the turbolift. 
PICARD 2: It's happening again. 
DATA 2: I feel no disorientation. 
DATA: Nor do I. 
(The doors close) 
[Corridor]

RIKER: What was that? 
DATA: I believe what could be termed the Manheim Effect is becoming
more pronounced. 
RIKER: This is where we started, if we are us. 
DATA: Oh, we are us, sir, but they are also us. So indeed, we are both
us at different points along the same time continuum. 
(A turbolift arrives, they look inside and enter) 
PICARD: Bridge. 
[Ready room] 
PICARD: What have you learned? 
DATA: We have completed a scan of the planet surface. 
RIKER: We've discovered the second lab is on the far side of the
planet, completely destroyed. Unable to determine what caused it.
Otherwise, very little to clarify the situation. 
DATA: Our sensors show an immense volume of energy emanating deep
within the planet, and concentrated near Manheim's remaining
laboratory. 
PICARD: How is the energy being used. 
RIKER: No idea. 
PICARD: What's it's source? 
DATA: I cannot be sure, sir, but I believe Manheim has developed a
method for harnessing energy from the pulsar. 
RIKER: It comes down to this, Captain. We've learned everything we can
from here, and we are no closer to understanding it than we were twelve
hours ago. Manheim is unable to help us, but hopefully, having been a
good scientist, he kept notes. 
DATA: I would need to study Manheim's records. 
RIKER: And in order to do that we're going to have to go down there. 
PICARD: What about the defence system Mrs. Manheim spoke of? 
RIKER: It may have been connected to the main system, and when she
lowered the shield she may have turned that off as well. If not, we'll
deal with it as best we can. 
PICARD: Prepare your team. 
RIKER: Aye, sir. 
