RIKER PICARD DATA 2 CRUSHER DATA PICARD 2 JENICE
room gathered possible commander maintain easy known immutable er

[Sickbay]

(A woman and a shaking man materialise on the
floor) 
CRUSHER: I'll help. Easy. Easy. 
(She and a male nurse get Paul onto a bed) 
CRUSHER: I've got his legs. How long has he been like this? 
JENICE: Several hours at least. He was in his lab, so I can't be sure. 
CRUSHER: I need to do some tests. 
(Picard, Riker and Data enter) 
PICARD: Er, I, er. 
JENICE: Jean-Luc. I thought the voice sounded familiar. 
PICARD: Hello. 
JENICE: I should have known. Who else would have charged to my rescue? 
PICARD: This is my First Officer, Commander William Riker. Lieutenant
Commander Data. This is Jenice Manheim. 
RIKER: A pleasure, Mrs. Manheim. 
JENICE: Thank you. 
PICARD: I have a number of questions for you. 
JENICE: I hope I can be of some help. 
PICARD: Why don't we sit down?

[Doctor's office]

PICARD: You said there were only two of you left.
What happened to the rest of the crew? 
JENICE: They were working in the second lab. Something happened there a
few weeks ago. They were all killed. It was a terrible accident. I
don't know exactly what happened. So many brilliant, wonderful minds,
just gone. 
DATA: Do you know the nature of Doctor Manheim's work? 
JENICE: Paul's always been interested in time. He's never believed that
it was immutable, any more than space is immutable. Over the last
decade, he came to believe that we reside in one of infinite
dimensions, and what holds us here is the constancy of time. Change
that and it would be what he called opening the window to those other
dimensions. 
RIKER: Which begins to explain what happened. 
JENICE: Have you been experiencing something up here? 
PICARD: Yes. What is emanating here is having repercussions light years
away, maybe even further. 
JENICE: That would explain his anxiety. I had no idea it had gone so
far beyond Vandor. 
RIKER: Why this place? Why Vandor? 
JENICE: All I can tell you about that is Paul and the rest of the team
searched for two years to find it. Vandor's exactly what they needed. A
planetoid around a binary star. 
DATA: Because of the dense gravity of the pulsar. 
PICARD: Did your husband ever attempt to define these dimensions, give
you an idea of what he expected? 
JENICE: No. But he did say that he was very close to proving his
theories. And then the accident. 
PICARD: Did he anticipate that these experiments might be dangerous? 
JENICE: I didn't think so. Now, in retrospect, he probably did. That
would explain all the unusual precautions he began taking, even before
the accident. The force field, the elaborate security system. Every
time he started a new experiment, he insisted that I stay in what he
said called a protected room.
PICARD: Ah, and that's why you weren't affected. 
JENICE: Jean-Luc, he would never knowingly do anything to hurt anyone. 
PICARD: Yes, I believe that. 
JENICE: But as he saw his goal getting closer, seeming possible, he
became more and more obsessive. Maybe that clouded his judgement. This
is not how I imagined seeing you again. 
PICARD: Nor I you. 
JENICE: You've done well. A great starship in the far reaches of the
galaxy. It's everything you'd hoped. 
PICARD: Not exactly. Nothing works just as you hope. If you can't tell
us any more, I need to send a team down to the lab. 
JENICE: You can't. It's protected. One of the other scientists made
sure no one could get in. 
CRUSHER: Excuse me. 
JENICE: Is he worse? 
CRUSHER: He's resting. But I'd like you to undergo some tests as well.
My nurse will start them. 
JENICE: Thank you for your kindness, Doctor. 
(Jenice kisses Picard's cheek and leave) 
PICARD: She's an old friend. 
CRUSHER: I gathered that. It's her husband I'm more concerned with at
the moment. 
PICARD: What's the prognosis? 
CRUSHER: I believe he's dying. His neurochemistry's been affected, but
I don't know how or why. I've never encountered anything like it
before. 
RIKER: How long does he have? 
CRUSHER: Maybe a couple of days. It's hard to predict. All I can do is
maintain him or attempt to maintain him until I find out what's causing
the damage. 
PICARD: Can we talk to him? 
CRUSHER: Not now. Not yet. 
[Turbolift]

(Picard, Data and Riker are about to enter) 
DATA: Incidentally, Captain, the effects of the time distortions are
now being felt in the Ilecom system. 
(They enter) 
PICARD: Bridge. In the past decade, Manheim has turned some vague
theories into a practical application. 
RIKER: Yes, but without his help, I'm not sure we'll be able to pose
any intelligent questions, let alone come up with any solutions. 
(The turbolift door opens, and Picard, Data and Riker are about to
enter) 
DATA: Incidentally, Captain, the effects of the time distortions are
now being felt in the Ilecom system. 
PICARD: It's us before we stepped into the turbolift. 
PICARD 2: It's happening again. 
DATA 2: I feel no disorientation. 
DATA: Nor do I. 
(The doors close) 
