PICARD [OC] MANHEIM LAFORGE  PICARD PICARD DATA
thank danger machine beam admit effects er open continuum

[Bridge]

PICARD: On my way, Doctor. 
[Sickbay]

PICARD: You asked for me. 
MANHEIM: I am not sure I remembered all of the codes for the security
system. You should warn anyone going down there 
PICARD: Thank you. I'll tell them to be cautious. 
MANHEIM: What I really wanted to talk to you about is Jenice. 
PICARD: Doctor Manheim, I did not come here to discuss your wife. 
MANHEIM: It is only this. If anything should go wrong, please, take
care of her for me. 
PICARD: Of course. 
MANHEIM: She never would admit this, but she has had a terrible time
these last years. Had we not been so isolated, she might have left me,
and I never would have known. At least, not right away. Perhaps I'm not
a man who should have a woman like her. She deserves better. 
PICARD: You underestimate her. I know, because I once did. 
[Corridor]

DATA: In both cases, the time distortions occurred
along the same continuum as a preview or a reprise of a specific point
in time. 
PICARD: Where we are, where we were, and where we will be. Data, I want
this to be an away team of one. You. I don't think there's any reason
to risk anyone else. 
DATA: It is reasonable, sir. After all, I am a machine and dispensable.

PICARD: Indispensable is the appropriate word. I think it should be
only you because you seem more able to control the effects of the time
distortion. 
DATA: Oh, I see, sir. That is quite true, sir. I see time as a
constant, whereas humans
perceive time as flexible. Hence the expression, times flies when
you're having fun, which until now has always confused me. 
PICARD: Well, I want you to put a stitch in time and, er, save much
more than nine. 
DATA: Sir? 
PICARD: If other members of the away team became disoriented, it could
create additional problems and perhaps increase the danger. 
DATA: I will go immediately, sir. 
PICARD: Good luck, Data. 
[Transporter room]

LAFORGE: All right. We have the coordinates exactly
as the Professor specified. 
[Vandor corridor]

(Data arrives safely) 
DATA: Enterprise. 
PICARD [OC]: Picard. 
DATA: I am proceeding to the lab, sir. 
PICARD [OC]: Maintain an open frequency, Mister Data. 
DATA: Aye, sir. 
(Then he has to dodge a laser beam and take out the emitters)

[Bridge]

 PICARD: Mister Data, what's going on? 
