TROI DEAN LAFORGE WORF PICARD RIKER MANHEIM DATA

[Gymnasium]

(Picard and his opponent are fencing. His opponent
gets a winning hit) 
DEAN: I took advantage. 
PICARD: No, no, Lieutenant, the advantage was yours. Come again. En
garde. 
(This time Picard gets the winning hit) 
DEAN: Interesting move, sir, but what technique was that? 
PICARD: The technique of a desperate man. 
(Then things go blurry and) 
DEAN: Interesting move, sir, but what technique was that? 
PICARD: The technique of a desperate man. 
DEAN: Captain, what was that? 
PICARD: Picard to Bridge. 
RIKER [OC]: Captain? 
PICARD: Number One, did something unusual just occur on the Bridge? 
RIKER [OC]: Yes, sir. We experienced some kind of loop where everything
repeats itself. 
PICARD: Here too. I'm on my way. 
[Bridge]

PICARD: (still in fencing gear) Report, Mister
Data. 
DATA: Sensors show nothing, sir, but it appears a moment in time
repeated itself exactly for everyone. 
LAFORGE: Just like a feeling of deja vu. 
WORF: Reports from all decks coming in, sir. 
DATA: Computers were also affected, which would indicate the phenomenon
was not an illusion but
occurred in real time. 
PICARD: Number One, find out if anything similar happened in this
sector. 
WORF: Sir, I am receiving an emergency transmission from the Pegos
Minor system. 
PICARD: Put it on. 
MANHEIM [OC]: Five four two point two. I repeat. This is Doctor Paul
Manheim. We are in need of help. Urgent. All ships, please respond. I
repeat. Coordinates are six six seven two eight point nine 
WORF: It is an automated signal, sir. I am unable to establish contact.

PICARD: Shut it off. Mister La Forge, lay in a course on those
coordinates. 
LAFORGE: Aye, sir. 
RIKER: Captain, you act as if there's a connection between the time
distortion and the distress signal. 
PICARD: There is. Paul Manheim. Fifteen years ago he went off to work
on experiments relating to non-linear time. It appears he may have
achieved some measure of success. Speed warp eight. 
LAFORGE: Aye, sir. Warp eight. 
PICARD: Engage. 
LAFORGE: Estimated arrival Pegos Minor, four hours, thirty five
minutes, seventeen seconds. 
RIKER: I've never heard of Paul Manheim. 
PICARD: Mister Data. 
DATA: A highly respected scientist, considered a visionary, he advanced
several time-related theories. One regarding the relationships between
time and gravity was quite intriguing. But neither that theory nor any
other
received wide acceptance. 
PICARD: Fifteen years ago, he assembled a team of scientists to expand
that research. They disappeared. Haven't been heard from since. 
RIKER: Did you know him, Captain? 
PICARD: I knew of him. He was teaching at the University when I was in
Paris, but I didn't have the pleasure. I must change. Number One,
inform me half an hour before we reach those co-ordinates. Keep trying
to determine if the time distortion was specifically located on the
Enterprise. 
RIKER: Yes, sir.
TROI: Captain? Excuse me. 
PICARD: Yes, what is it, Counsellor? 
TROI: I think you would prefer to discuss this in private. 
PICARD: That's not necessary. Go on. 
TROI: When Professor Manheim's name was mentioned, you reacted with
intense emotion. 
PICARD: Yes. Please get to the point. 
TROI: I don't want to interfere with your personal life, but unresolved
strong emotion can affect judgement. 
PICARD: Well, thank you for your concern. 
TROI: As Ship's Counsellor, I offer my assistance. 
PICARD: What do you suggest? 
TROI: Confronting deep personal issues is not easy for you. You tend to
suppress them. There are a few hours until we arrive. Perhaps you
should use this time to analyse your feelings and put them into
perspective. 
PICARD: Thank you, Counsellor. If I should need you further, I'll let
you know. 
