PICARD RIKER COMPUTER DATA

[Observation lounge]

RIKER: There's no proof of anything. 
PICARD: The last time I saw Admiral Quinn he tried to warn me about a
subversion within the Federation. Then Walker tried, and he's dead. 
RIKER: Subversion? Personally, I don't believe this conspiracy theory.

[Ready room]

(Information is still flashing in front of Data's
eyes) 
DATA: Startling. Quite extraordinary, in fact. 
COMPUTER: Directions unclear. Please repeat request. 
DATA: That was not a request. I was simply talking to myself. A human
idiosyncrasy, triggered by fascination with a particular set of facts.
Or sometimes brought about by senility. Or used as a means of weighing
information before reaching a conclusion. Or, as a 
COMPUTER: Thank you, sir. I comprehend. Please specify how you would
like to proceed, sir. 
DATA: Please continue with record scan. Intriguing.

[Observation lounge]

RIKER: But we have no facts. We have to assume the
explosion was an accident. 
(Data enters) 
PICARD: Number One, I believe what happened on the Horatio was
sabotage. 
RIKER: But we can't be certain. 
DATA: Perhaps we can. My orders were to search for abnormal patterns in
Starfleet's directives. I believe I have found just that. 
(He puts a data disc into a desk monitor) 
DATA: These are various outposts and starbases where I have detected
unusual activity over the past few months. 
PICARD: What sort of activity? 
DATA: An uncustomary reshuffling of personnel, usually in the command
areas. The new officers have had frequent contact with the highest
levels of Starfleet Command. 
RIKER: Why hasn't anybody discovered this before? 
DATA: The orders were given with great subtlety. To use an aphorism,
Starfleet's left hand did not know what its right hand was doing. 
PICARD: Data, can you speculate as to the purpose of these
reassignments? 
DATA: I believe it is a clandestine attempt to control vital sectors of
Federation territory. 
RIKER: This could be a prelude to an invasion. But who's behind it? 
DATA: There is insufficient data to make such an assessment, sir. 
RIKER: Are you suggesting that we warp over to Starfleet headquarters
and demand to know what's going on? 
DATA: Why not? 
PICARD: Yes, why not? We're talking about a threat to the entire future
of the Federation. I don't think any of us can rest easy until we've
been to the source.

Captain's personal log, supplemental. While it is
quite unusual for a starship to return to Earth, we seem to be left
with no other choice. I have apprised the remaining bridge crew of our
situation.

