TROI LAFORGE WORF PICARD SAVAR [on viewscreen] RIKER AARON [on viewscreen] COMPUTER QUINN [on viewscreen] DATA
personal greet hand whispers expatiate imagine ship assessment final

[Ready room]

(Information is still flashing in front of Data's
eyes) 
DATA: Startling. Quite extraordinary, in fact. 
COMPUTER: Directions unclear. Please repeat request. 
DATA: That was not a request. I was simply talking to myself. A human
idiosyncrasy, triggered by fascination with a particular set of facts.
Or sometimes brought about by senility. Or used as a means of weighing
information before reaching a conclusion. Or, as a 
COMPUTER: Thank you, sir. I comprehend. Please specify how you would
like to proceed, sir. 
DATA: Please continue with record scan. Intriguing.

[Observation lounge]

RIKER: But we have no facts. We have to assume the
explosion was an accident. 
(Data enters) 
PICARD: Number One, I believe what happened on the Horatio was
sabotage. 
RIKER: But we can't be certain. 
DATA: Perhaps we can. My orders were to search for abnormal patterns in
Starfleet's directives. I believe I have found just that. 
(He puts a data disc into a desk monitor) 
DATA: These are various outposts and starbases where I have detected
unusual activity over the past few months. 
PICARD: What sort of activity? 
DATA: An uncustomary reshuffling of personnel, usually in the command
areas. The new officers have had frequent contact with the highest
levels of Starfleet Command. 
RIKER: Why hasn't anybody discovered this before? 
DATA: The orders were given with great subtlety. To use an aphorism,
Starfleet's left hand did not know what its right hand was doing. 
PICARD: Data, can you speculate as to the purpose of these
reassignments? 
DATA: I believe it is a clandestine attempt to control vital sectors of
Federation territory. 
RIKER: This could be a prelude to an invasion. But who's behind it? 
DATA: There is insufficient data to make such an assessment, sir. 
RIKER: Are you suggesting that we warp over to Starfleet headquarters
and demand to know what's going on? 
DATA: Why not? 
PICARD: Yes, why not? We're talking about a threat to the entire future
of the Federation. I don't think any of us can rest easy until we've
been to the source.

Captain's personal log, supplemental. While it is
quite unusual for a starship to return to Earth, we seem to be left
with no other choice. I have apprised the remaining bridge crew of our
situation.

[Bridge]

LAFORGE: Approaching Earth, sir. 
PICARD: Standard orbit, Mister La Forge. 
LAFORGE: Standard orbit, sir. 
PICARD: Any word from Starfleet Command, Data? 
DATA: Nothing so far, sir. 
PICARD: Strange. 
(Enterprise glides over the moon on final approach) 
DATA: Captain. I am now receiving a message from Starfleet Command. 
PICARD: On screen. 
(A trio of elderly Admirals are seated behind a desk. Two humans
flanking a Vulcan) 
SAVAR [on viewscreen]: Greetings Enterprise. I am Admiral Savar. This
is Admiral Aaron, and I believe you already know Admiral Quinn. 
PICARD: Yes, indeed. It's good to see you again, Admiral. 
QUINN [on viewscreen]: And you, Captain. 
SAVAR [on viewscreen]: Of course. We are always delighted when the
Enterprise returns to the nest. Yet we are puzzled by the timing of
your visit. 
PICARD: Yes, sir. I can imagine you would be. 
AARON [on viewscreen]: Governor Delaplane of Pacifica informs us that
you cancelled your scheduled stop there. Is this true? 
PICARD: Yes, sir, it is. 
AARON [on viewscreen]: Explain yourself, Captain. Why have you returned
to Earth? 
PICARD: I would rather discuss in person, Admiral. 
(Dexter Remmick appears and whispers to Savar) 
SAVAR [on viewscreen]: Excuse us for one moment, Captain. 
RIKER: They seem normal enough. 
PICARD: On the surface. Counsellor, any thoughts? 
TROI: Hard to say. Someone is hiding something, but I can't tell who or
what. 
RIKER: I must say I'm not overjoyed to see Remmick again. 
LAFORGE: Considering what we've done, their response has been pretty
temperate. 
WORF: I don't like it. You can't trust them. 
SAVAR [on viewscreen]: Forgive the delay, Captain Picard. We'd be
delighted if you and your First Officer would join us for dinner. 
AARON [on viewscreen]: Yes. Delighted. 
SAVAR [on viewscreen]: It would give you a good opportunity to
expatiate your viewpoint. 
AARON [on viewscreen]: To elaborate upon whatever it is that's
troubling you. 
PICARD: Thank you. We accept your gracious offer. 
SAVAR [on viewscreen]: Excellent. Preparations are already underway. 
AARON [on viewscreen]: We'll greet you in the reception area in, say,
twenty minutes? 
PICARD: Splendid. 
QUINN [on viewscreen]: I won't be able to attend dinner, I'm afraid,
but I would like to see the ship and say hello again, Captain. 
PICARD: Of course. We look forward to seeing you, Admiral. Enterprise
out. Quinn wants to see us alone. At least we know he's still on our
side. Mister Data, you have the Bridge. 
DATA: Aye, sir. 
