PICARD KEEL TRYLA RIXX

[Mine entrance]

(Picard walks carefully down the entrance ramp, and
is greeted by a pink-skinned Bolian with a phaser. Then Walker Keel and
a woman appear, also armed)
KEEL: Thanks for coming. 
PICARD: This is some greeting, old friend. 
KEEL: Tell me, Jean-Luc, where did we first meet? 
RIXX: (the alleged Bolian) Answer the question. 
PICARD: Tau Ceti Three. It was a bar. Quite an exotic one as I
remember. What do I win? 
KEEL: Do you recall the night you introduced Jack Crusher to Beverly? 
PICARD: You know full well I hadn't even met Beverly then. You
introduced them. 
KEEL: My brother introduced them. 
PICARD: You don't have a brother. Two sisters, Anne and Melissa. What
the hell is this all about? 
(Keel nods, and weapons are put away) 
RIXX: Apologies, Captain. We had to make sure you were really you. 
PICARD: Walker, what is going on? 
KEEL: Captain Picard, meet Captain Rixx. 
PICARD: I believe we've met. The Altairian conference. 
KEEL: And Captain Scott. 
PICARD: Tryla Scott. It's said you made Captain faster than anyone in
Starfleet history, present company included. Are you that good? 
TRYLA: Yes, I am. 
PICARD: Starfleet's finest. Fancy meeting you here. 
RIXX: We all came secretly, Picard. To discuss the threat. 
PICARD: What threat? 
TRYLA: Have you noticed anything about Starfleet Command lately?
Anything unusual? 
PICARD: No. But we've been on the outer rim for a while. We haven't had
much contact with them. 
KEEL: Some of us have seen strange patterns emerging. Unusual orders.
High-ranking officials backing irrational proposals. 
RIXX: Starbase twelve was completely evacuated for two full days. No
explanation given. 
TRYLA: And what about the deaths? McKinney, Ryan Sipe, Onna
Karapleedeez. 
PICARD: All dead? 
TRYLA: A series of accidents. 
KEEL: Or so they say. It's hard to be certain of anything. Interfleet
communications are at a minimum. But something is happening. 
TRYLA: And we fully expect the Enterprise to be targeted soon. 
PICARD: Targeted for what? By whom? 
KEEL: We're not sure yet. Damn it, Jean-Luc. I tell you that some of
Starfleet's top command people are changing. This could affect the very
core of our organisation. Officers I've known for years are bluffing
their way through talk of old times. 
RIXX: That's their weakness, a lack of memory. 
TRYLA: He doesn't believe us. He thinks we're crazy. 
PICARD: You've given me nothing to believe in. Just a lot of vague talk
about strange patterns, irrational proposals. Who's behind this, and to
what purpose? How are people being changed? 
KEEL: I can't say exactly, but I think its spread to my own ship. My
First Officer hasn't been the same since we stopped off at Earth. Our
Medical Officer says he's perfectly normal, but I don't think I trust
him either. 
PICARD: Walker! 
TRYLA: We know we don't have all the answers. All we ask is that you
keep your eyes open. 
PICARD: That's sound advice at any time, Captain. 
KEEL: Stay in touch with us, covertly. This meeting never took place as
far as Starfleet is concerned. Please, I'm asking this as a personal
favour. I'm glad, Jean-Luc. I'm glad you're still one of us. Tell
Beverly I said hello. 
RIXX: And watch your back, Picard.

