PICARD RIKER DATA WORF

[Bridge]

PICARD: Data, are you familiar with Dytallix B? 
DATA: Dytallix B is one of seven uninhabited planets mined for the
Federation by the Dytallix Mining Company. It is in the nearby Mira
system. 
PICARD: Mister La Forge, chart a course for it immediately. Warp seven.
And there will be no records or logs mentioning any aspect of this
diversion. 
RIKER: Captain, they're expecting us at Pacifica. Shouldn't we contact
them and let them know. 
PICARD: Negative. Nothing goes out without specific orders from me.
Hopefully the delay will be minimal. 
(As the Enterprise rushes off on its new course, and Picard is in his
Ready room, Data is at a science station) 
DATA: I have the readout on Dytallix B, Commander. 
RIKER: What have you got? 
DATA: Dytallix B is the fifth of six planets circling the red giant
known as Mira. One side always faces the sun, where temperatures reach
up to one hundred and eighty degrees. The mines line the temperate zone
between the day and night sides, but they are long deserted. 
RIKER: Why the devil are we be going to this planet? Are there any
miners or indigenous life forms on the planet? 
DATA: I believe the answer to both questions is no, sir. In a manner of
speaking, it is nothing but a lifeless hunk of rock, a useless ball of
mud, a worthless chunk 
RIKER: Thank you, Data. I get the idea. Captain, we are approaching
Dytallix B. 
PICARD [OC]: Very good, Number One. I'm on my way. 
(Picard enters) 
WORF: Captain, sensors are detecting three Federation starships already
in orbit around the planet. 
PICARD: Identify. 
WORF: Two are frigates. The Renegade commanded by Tryla Scott, and the
Thomas Paine, Captain Rixx commanding. 
DATA: The third is just coming into range now, sir. It is Ambassador
Class heavy cruiser, USS Horatio. 
RIKER: Horatio? Isn't that Walker Keel's ship? 
WORF: Attempts at communication have been ignored by all three vessels.

PICARD: Make no further attempts, Mister Worf. Any life form readings
on the surface, Data? 
DATA: Three, sir. All gathered inside what appears to be the entrance
to a mining tunnel. 
PICARD: Very well. Relay those coordinates to the transporter room. I'm
beaming down. 
RIKER: Alone, Captain? 
PICARD: Alone, Number One.

