RIKER TRYLA SAVAR PICARD REMMICK AARON CRUSHER

[Ante room]

PICARD: Continue, Doctor. 
CRUSHER [OC]: By the placement of the tendrils 
[Sickbay]

CRUSHER: The parasite appears to stimulate the
victim's adrenal glands, generate great strength 
[Ante room]

CRUSHER [OC]: And resistance to the 
PICARD: Never mind the details. Can you remove it? 
CRUSHER [OC]: I don't think so. 
[Sickbay]

CRUSHER: Not without killing the patient. Captain. 
[Ante room]

CRUSHER [OC]: You must set your phaser on kill.
Stun has little effect. 
PICARD: Doctor, one does not beam down to Starfleet Headquarters armed.

REMMICK: Your food is getting cold, Captain. 
PICARD: I'm going in to dinner now, Doctor. Tell Commander Riker to
join me as soon as he's ready. Picard out.

[Dining room]

(Three curved tables with two chairs each, to form
a circle. There is a covered bowl in front of each person) 
AARON: Please, sit down, Captain. We've been waiting. Go ahead and
start, Captain. We don't stand on ceremony here. 
(The bowl contains live mealworms. Picard recoils) 
AARON: Oh do eat up, Picard. Raise your hand if you want seconds. 
(Picard gets up and starts to back out of the room) 
PICARD: Riker! Thank God. We're leaving. 
RIKER: You're not going anywhere. You'll be one of us soon. 
AARON: You were meant for the Doctor. 
RIKER: It couldn't be helped. Riker walked in on us unexpectedly. 
(Aaron checks the back of his neck. The gill is there) 
SAVAR: No matter. The Doctor will soon be joining us. All in good time.

(Tryla Scott enters) 
SAVAR: Well, Captain Scott. Good. Now the setting is complete. 
AARON: You don't really think we were in the dark about your
intentions, do you? 
SAVAR: Patience is one of our virtues, Captain. We didn't go after you,
we allowed you to come after us. 
AARON: More dramatic that way, don't you think? 
TRYLA: Yes, the one thing both races share is a love of theatre. And
you've put on a fine show. 
PICARD: What race are you? Where are you from? 
SAVAR: It's not important. Let us just say we've come a long way to
join you. 
TRYLA: It's a perfect match. We're the brains, you're the brawn. 
RIKER: You'll understand soon, Picard. 
SAVAR: Indeed. We've been moving slowly, cautiously, for many months
now. Careful to cover our tracks. Careful not to arouse suspicion,
until it's too late. 
RIKER: And now it's too late. For you, that is. 
AARON: Well said, brother. Picard and Riker control the Enterprise,
which means we control the Enterprise. 
SAVAR: Eat hearty, brother! Relish your new body! 
(Riker takes a handful of mealworms, and is about to eat them when
instead he draws his phaser and shoots the other person sitting
opposite. Picard disarms Tryla Scott so Riker can shoot her, Aaron runs
out, the parasite leaves Tryla and Savar neck-pinches Riker. Picard
shoots Savar before Riker passes out) 
PICARD: Aaron!

[Hallway]

PICARD: Aaron! 
(They dodge his phaser blast and the two of them shoot the Admiral in
the back. His purple parasite comes out of his mouth and scuttles under
a nearby door. They follow it) 
[Room]

REMMICK: Can I help you, gentlemen? Is there any
trouble here? Perhaps if you'd tell me what it is 
PICARD: Remmick! 
(The parasite climbs the chair Remmick is sitting in) 
PICARD: No, Will. 
(Remmick swallow the parasite. His neck bulges with movement) 
REMMICK: You don't understand. We mean you no harm. We seek peaceful
co-existence. 
(So Riker and Picard shoot him and as his body falls apart, the alien
inside him that spawns the parasites looks out at them. So they kill
that too) 
Captain's log, stardate 41780.2. How difficult
after all these years of learning to respect life, to be forced to
destroy it. But there seems to be no alternative. Admiral Quinn is
expected to make a full recovery. There is no trace of the parasite
which took control of him. We'll never know how many of these life
forms infiltrated Starfleet, but it seems they could not survive
without the mother creature which had taken over Commander Remmick. 
