PICARD [OC] SONNY LAFORGE WORF RALPH [OC] CLARE PICARD RALPH TROI RIKER CRUSHER DATA
whacko figured thank fascination mid ain premise ship remember

[Guest lounge]

(The three resurrected people are dressed and
trying to pay attention) 
RIKER: I know this is all very confusing to you so I'll attempt to
explain. You are on the starship USS Enterprise. 
RALPH: American? 
RIKER: No, it's a vessel of the United Federation of Planets, and Earth
is a member. 
RALPH: What year is this? 
DATA: By your calendar two thousand three hundred sixty four. 
RALPH: What? My heart, is it? 
CRUSHER: It's perfectly fine. In fact, you are all now in excellent
health. 
RALPH: It worked. I made it. 
SONNY: (a down-home country boy, y'all) What is that? 
RIKER: An android. 
SONNY: You mean a robot? 
DATA: Actually there is a distinct difference between an android and a
robot. 
CLARE: And him? The one I saw before, with the head? 
CRUSHER: She means Worf. 
RIKER: He's a Klingon. That takes a little more explanation. 
SONNY: Now, listen, guys. I paid some idiot a lot of money to freeze me
when I died, and I just got to hear the words. Am I alive? 
RIKER: Oh, yes. Absolutely. 
SONNY: And the liver that was about to explode in my face? 
CRUSHER: Perfectly sound. 
CLARE: Excuse me, could someone please tell me what's going on here? 
CRUSHER: About three hundred and seventy years ago, you died of a
massive embolism. 
CLARE: I don't remember anything about that. 
CRUSHER: You and the others were frozen. 
SONNY: Cryonics. You know, freeze you now and heal you later. 
CLARE: Yeah, I've heard of it. I just never gave it much thought. How
did we get here? 
DATA: You were in a space module. 
SONNY: The whacko who sold me this scam said that by putting us in
orbit there weren't gonna be no chance of a brown out. 
RALPH: Yes, several cryonics companies fell into disrepute because of
power failures which adversely affected their refrigeration system.
Their stocks were severely depressed. 
SONNY: The whole deal was a long shot but I figured what the hell,
might as well give them the dough instead of leaving it to my ex-wives.
But you know, son, I figured it was all just a bunch of hooey. 
DATA: Hooey? Ah, as in hogwash, malarky, jive. An intentional
fabrication. 
SONNY: There you go, now you got it. 
RIKER: Now, if you didn't contract for this, who did? 
CLARE: It must have been my husband, Donald. If it was new and foolish,
he would have popped for it. Well, I'll say this for it. It's the first
thing he's ever bought into that worked. 
RALPH: I, for one, never had a doubt. My stock in this company must
have split at least a dozen times by now. 
DATA: Actually, the process of cryonics was never more than a fad, and
did not continue much beyond the mid-twenty first century. 
RALPH: I need to make a phone call as soon as possible. 
RIKER: A phone call? 
RALPH: Yes. I have provided for myself. I have a substantial portfolio.
It's critical that I check on it. Let the bank know that I am alive and
well. 
RIKER: Ah, that's going to be a little difficult right at the moment. 
RALPH: Well, do you at least have a copy of The Wall Street Journal? 
RIKER: I think we should take the Doctor's advice. Take this very
slowly until we've all adjusted, and then we'll talk to the Captain.

[Bridge]

TROI: As you know, there is very little available
on the Romulans. 
PICARD: Counsellor, anything would be helpful. 
TROI: They seem to be creatures of extremes. One moment violent beyond
description, the next tender. They are related to the Vulcans, but as
each race developed, their differences grew wider. They are intensely
curious. Their belief in their own superiority is beyond arrogance. For
some reason they have exhibited a fascination with humans and it is
that fascination, more than anything else, that has kept the peace. One
other thing. They will not initiate anything. They will wait for you to
commit yourself. 
PICARD: Counter-punchers. Thank you, Counsellor. That's quite valuable.

[Guest lounge]

(Data and Sonny are at the food dispenser) 
DATA: Talk. 
SONNY: I'd like me a thick Kansas City steak, and some country fried
potatoes, and a mess of greens. Oh, hell, just forget all that and give
me have a martini, straight up, with two olives. For the vitamins. 
(The glass appears out of thin air. Sonny samples it and whistles) 
DATA: Is there something wrong? 
SONNY: Wrong? Only that your computer here fixed about the best martini
I have ever had. I just might get to like this place. Let's see if the
Braves are on. How do you turn on this teevee? 
RIKER: TV? 
SONNY: Yeah, the boob tube. I'd like to see how the Braves are doing
after all this time. Probably still finding ways to lose. 
DATA: I believe he means television, sir. That particular form of
entertainment did not last much beyond the year two thousand forty. 
SONNY: Well, what do you guys do? I mean, you don't drink, and you
ain't got no TV. Must be kind of boring, ain't it? 
PICARD [OC]: Number One. 
RIKER: Riker here. 
PICARD: Would you and Mister Data report to the Bridge? 
RIKER: At once, sir. 
RALPH: With whom were you speaking? 
RIKER: The Captain. 
RALPH: Good. Would you tell him I would like to see him as soon as it's
convenient? 
CLARE: What's going to happen to us? Do we stay here with you? Do we go
back to Earth? 
RIKER: That will all be up to the Captain. 
RALPH: Well, get him in here. I have to phone Geneva right away about
my accounts. The interest alone could be enough to buy this ship. 
SONNY: The Yankee's right. Let's get the big boy in here. 
RIKER: I'll pass along your request. If you'll excuse us. 
SONNY: Duty calls. Hey, I understand. (to Data) Why don't you come back
later on. You and me'll find us a couple of low mileage pit woofies,
and help'em build a memory.

[Corridor]

DATA: What is to be done with them, sir? 
RIKER: I don't know. 
DATA: Commander, a low mileage pit woofie? 
RIKER: This time you've got me. I haven't a clue. 
DATA: These are the most unusual humans I have ever encountered. 
RIKER: Well, from what I've seen of our guests, there's not much to
redeem them. It makes one wonder how our species survived the
twenty-first century.

[Ready room]

PICARD: Report. 
WORF: We are six hours from the Neutral Zone. I have been unable to
establish communications with any Federation colony or station in this
vicinity. 
PICARD: How many outposts are there in this sector? 
WORF: Nine. 
RIKER: I think we work on the assumption they've all been destroyed. 
LAFORGE: By the Romulans? 
RIKER: It fits their historical pattern. 
DATA: Since we have no contact with the Romulans for fifty three years,
seven months, eighteen days, we must consider that the information we
do have, is out of date. 
RIKER: The positive side of that is the information they have about us
is also out of date. Captain, I think it's that lack of information
that this is all about. 
PICARD: Go on. 
RIKER: In my opinion, the Romulans want a confrontation specifically
with us. 
PICARD: The Enterprise? 
RIKER: Well, not by name, but the Federation. They know the Federation
will send their best. That'll give them a perfect chance to see
firsthand how far we've advanced both in technology and technique. 
PICARD: What are you recommending? 
RIKER: I'm not sure I have a specific recommendation. Perhaps we should
assume the initiative. 
WORF: I agree with Commander Riker. This may be our only opportunity.
We should seize it. 
PICARD: Mister Data? 
DATA: The strategy is built on a single premise. The hostile intent of
the Romulans. If the premise is sound, so is the proposal. 
LAFORGE: If their intention isn't hostile, what is it? 
RALPH [OC]: Captain Picard? 
PICARD: This is Captain Picard. To whom am I speaking? 
RALPH [OC]: Ralph Offenhouse. 
