SONNY LAFORGE WORF CLARE RIKER [OC] RALPH RIKER PICARD DATA
firsthand oc orderly forge report won mouth notices red

[Sonny's quarters]

(also with a model NCC1701) 
DATA: You asked to see me. 
SONNY: Look, I'm about to go out of my mind for something to do. I
mean, sitting here alone just don't get it. What say you and I put
together a little party? 
DATA: A celebration? 
SONNY: No, nothing that fancy. Just some folks, some suds, and some
sounds. Hell, it ain't nothing but something to do. 
DATA: I will speak to the Captain. 
SONNY: Great, you do that. 
DATA: Inquiry. You do not seem to be having as much difficulty
adjusting to your current circumstances as the others. 
SONNY: You mean being here on this tub four hundred years from where I
started? Heck, it's the same dance, it's just a different tune. You
think anybody here's got a guitar I could borrow? 
DATA: No, but the computer can replicate such an instrument. 
SONNY: I was kind of hoping to get one while I still remember the
chords. 
RIKER [OC]: Commander Data, we are approaching the Neutral Zone. Report
to the Bridge. 
DATA: I must leave now. 
SONNY: What's this Neutral Zone? 
DATA: It is a buffer between the Romulan Empire and the Federation. 
SONNY: Why does that make me nervous? 
DATA: I do not know. 
SONNY: We won't be inviting these Romulans to our party, will we? 
DATA: No, that would not be appropriate.

Captain's log, supplemental. We have arrived at the
edge of the Neutral Zone, where we will now have an opportunity to
learn firsthand what happened to our distant outpost.

[Bridge]

DATA: Captain, there is nothing left of Outpost
Delta Zero Five. 
LAFORGE: Must have been one hell of an explosion. 
DATA: Sensors indicate no evidence of conventional attack. 
PICARD: Can you determine what happened? 
WORF: The outpost was not just destroyed, it's as though some great
force just scooped it off the face of the planet. 
PICARD: Could it have been a natural phenomenon? 
WORF: Insufficient information, sir. 
PICARD: Mister La Forge. 
LAFORGE: Sir? 
PICARD: Set course for the next closest station. 
LAFORGE: Aye, sir.

[Guest lounge]

RALPH: I have spent my career being able to tell
when the other guy's mouth is dry. There is something going on here.
Something serious. The tension level on this ship has jumped up. 
SONNY: Even if you're right, what can we do about it? And besides,
these old boys here don't need us telling them where the bear sits.
Look here what that young fella made for me. 
(It's a guitar) 
CLARE: How did he do that? 
SONNY: He called it a pattern replication. It plays real good, too. 
RALPH: I'm trying to tell you that there is a situation developing on
this vessel that directly affects us, and all you can talk about is
that stupid guitar! 
SONNY: Hey, now, these folks don't need us swimming in their soup, so
why don't you just relax and let'em do their jobs? 
RALPH: That may be all right for you, but I am not willing to allow my
fate to be decided by others. I at least want to know what is going on.

[Bridge]

LAFORGE: We are approaching Tarod Nine. 
DATA: The condition is identical, Captain. 
WORF: Everyone and everything is gone. 
RIKER: Captain, I strongly recommend that we go to Red Alert. If the
Romulans have improved their cloaking device, and we'd be fools to
believe they haven't, we should assume a more defensive posture. 
WORF: I agree, Captain. I recommend we go immediately to battle
stations. 
PICARD: I appreciate your advice and concern, but this is not the time
for rash actions. We are still investigating.
There are three other stations in this sector we have to visit. Let's
proceed in a calm and orderly manner. 
RIKER: If not battle stations, may we at least take the ship to Yellow
Alert? 
PICARD: Yes, Number One. That would be prudent. Make it so. 
[Corridor]

(Ralph is walking along, and notices a woman come
out of a turbolift. He goes in) 
