PICARD [OC] RIKER CLARE PICARD RALPH SONNY CRUSHER DATA
figured sees like aware offenhouse cardiomyopathy beverly portfolio minor

[Sickbay]

PICARD: What is it, Doctor? 
CRUSHER: It's the people from the capsule. 
PICARD: Capsule? People? What people? 
CRUSHER: The people Data beamed over. 
PICARD: I wasn't aware that he had. 
CRUSHER: Well he did, and they were frozen. I thawed them. 
PICARD: You what? 
CRUSHER: I didn't know what else to do. The crypts in which they were
frozen were literally falling apart. 
PICARD: So what's their condition? 
CRUSHER: Right now, they are all sleeping. Each of them needed minor
medical attention. Minor now, but then their conditions were obviously
terminal. One had a heart problem, another had an advanced case of
emphysema with extensive liver damage. You know the most surprising
thing of all, is that each of them had been frozen after they died. 
PICARD: After they died? 
CRUSHER: Cryonics. It was a kind of fad in the late twentieth century.
People feared dying. It terrified them. At the moment of death, they
would be frozen, so that later, some time in the future, when
presumably medical science had a cure for whatever killed them, they
could be thawed back to life, healed, and sent on about their business.

PICARD: In the case of this group, it apparently worked. Mister Data,
will you report to Sickbay.

[Bridge]

PICARD [OC]: Immediately. 

[Sickbay]

PICARD: Look, I am never critical of any member of
my staff being curious, but it's just that the timing is so 
DATA: I could not leave them there, Captain. The condition of their
vehicle was deteriorating. 
PICARD: But Data, they were already dead. I mean, what more could have
happened to them? 
DATA: I see your point, Captain, but at the time it seemed the proper
thing to do. 
PICARD: Well, they're alive now. We're going to have to treat them as
living human beings. 
CRUSHER: Alive and well and ready to be awakened. 
PICARD: Before you wake them up, I want to have Security here.
Lieutenant Worf, report to Sickbay. 
CRUSHER: I have them sedated now, but they should be up and about as
soon as possible. 
PICARD: Well, then we have no other choice. 
CRUSHER: None that I can see. 
(Worf enters, and Beverly puts a hypo to the woman's neck. She wakes,
sees Picard, then Beverly, and smiles. Then she starts to sit up, sees
Worf, and faints) 
PICARD: Welcome to the twenty fourth century. 
DATA: I was able to retrieve some information from the ancient disk I
removed from the module's computer. Her name is Clare Raymond, age
thirty five, occupation homemaker. Must be some kind of construction
work. 
CRUSHER: She died of an embolism. It probably happened very suddenly,
otherwise her physical condition was excellent. 
(A nurse wakes Clare up, again) 
DATA: His name is Ralph Offenhouse, age fifty five, occupation
financier. 
CRUSHER: Advanced cardiomyopathy. Inoperable at the time, but easily
correctable now. He must have known his condition was terminal for
quite some time. 
(Ralph is woken) 
DATA: Much of his file we could not retrieved. His name is L Q Sonny
Clemonds. Apparently his occupation had something to do with music. 
CRUSHER: There was marked deterioration of every system in his body.
Probably from massive chemical abuse. Unbelievable. 
PICARD: That sounds like someone who hated life. Yet he had himself
frozen presumably so he could go through it all again. 
CRUSHER: Too afraid to live, too scared to die. 
PICARD: Doctor, this seems to be a situation more suited to your
talents. I'll leave it with you. I'll be on the Bridge.

[Bridge]

PICARD: Number One, kindly take charge of our
guests until we have time to decide what we're going to do with them. 
RIKER: Aye, sir. 
PICARD: Number One, keep them out of my way. 
[Guest lounge]

(The three resurrected people are dressed and
trying to pay attention) 
RIKER: I know this is all very confusing to you so I'll attempt to
explain. You are on the starship USS Enterprise. 
RALPH: American? 
RIKER: No, it's a vessel of the United Federation of Planets, and Earth
is a member. 
RALPH: What year is this? 
DATA: By your calendar two thousand three hundred sixty four. 
RALPH: What? My heart, is it? 
CRUSHER: It's perfectly fine. In fact, you are all now in excellent
health. 
RALPH: It worked. I made it. 
SONNY: (a down-home country boy, y'all) What is that? 
RIKER: An android. 
SONNY: You mean a robot? 
DATA: Actually there is a distinct difference between an android and a
robot. 
CLARE: And him? The one I saw before, with the head? 
CRUSHER: She means Worf. 
RIKER: He's a Klingon. That takes a little more explanation. 
SONNY: Now, listen, guys. I paid some idiot a lot of money to freeze me
when I died, and I just got to hear the words. Am I alive? 
RIKER: Oh, yes. Absolutely. 
SONNY: And the liver that was about to explode in my face? 
CRUSHER: Perfectly sound. 
CLARE: Excuse me, could someone please tell me what's going on here? 
CRUSHER: About three hundred and seventy years ago, you died of a
massive embolism. 
CLARE: I don't remember anything about that. 
CRUSHER: You and the others were frozen. 
SONNY: Cryonics. You know, freeze you now and heal you later. 
CLARE: Yeah, I've heard of it. I just never gave it much thought. How
did we get here? 
DATA: You were in a space module. 
SONNY: The whacko who sold me this scam said that by putting us in
orbit there weren't gonna be no chance of a brown out. 
RALPH: Yes, several cryonics companies fell into disrepute because of
power failures which adversely affected their refrigeration system.
Their stocks were severely depressed. 
SONNY: The whole deal was a long shot but I figured what the hell,
might as well give them the dough instead of leaving it to my ex-wives.
But you know, son, I figured it was all just a bunch of hooey. 
DATA: Hooey? Ah, as in hogwash, malarky, jive. An intentional
fabrication. 
SONNY: There you go, now you got it. 
RIKER: Now, if you didn't contract for this, who did? 
CLARE: It must have been my husband, Donald. If it was new and foolish,
he would have popped for it. Well, I'll say this for it. It's the first
thing he's ever bought into that worked. 
RALPH: I, for one, never had a doubt. My stock in this company must
have split at least a dozen times by now. 
DATA: Actually, the process of cryonics was never more than a fad, and
did not continue much beyond the mid-twenty first century. 
RALPH: I need to make a phone call as soon as possible. 
RIKER: A phone call? 
RALPH: Yes. I have provided for myself. I have a substantial portfolio.
It's critical that I check on it. Let the bank know that I am alive and
well. 
RIKER: Ah, that's going to be a little difficult right at the moment. 
RALPH: Well, do you at least have a copy of The Wall Street Journal? 
RIKER: I think we should take the Doctor's advice. Take this very
slowly until we've all adjusted, and then we'll talk to the Captain.

