SONNY LAFORGE WORF CLARE PICARD RALPH RIKER COMPUTER DATA

[Bridge]

DATA: Captain, there is nothing left of Outpost
Delta Zero Five. 
LAFORGE: Must have been one hell of an explosion. 
DATA: Sensors indicate no evidence of conventional attack. 
PICARD: Can you determine what happened? 
WORF: The outpost was not just destroyed, it's as though some great
force just scooped it off the face of the planet. 
PICARD: Could it have been a natural phenomenon? 
WORF: Insufficient information, sir. 
PICARD: Mister La Forge. 
LAFORGE: Sir? 
PICARD: Set course for the next closest station. 
LAFORGE: Aye, sir.

[Guest lounge]

RALPH: I have spent my career being able to tell
when the other guy's mouth is dry. There is something going on here.
Something serious. The tension level on this ship has jumped up. 
SONNY: Even if you're right, what can we do about it? And besides,
these old boys here don't need us telling them where the bear sits.
Look here what that young fella made for me. 
(It's a guitar) 
CLARE: How did he do that? 
SONNY: He called it a pattern replication. It plays real good, too. 
RALPH: I'm trying to tell you that there is a situation developing on
this vessel that directly affects us, and all you can talk about is
that stupid guitar! 
SONNY: Hey, now, these folks don't need us swimming in their soup, so
why don't you just relax and let'em do their jobs? 
RALPH: That may be all right for you, but I am not willing to allow my
fate to be decided by others. I at least want to know what is going on.

[Bridge]

LAFORGE: We are approaching Tarod Nine. 
DATA: The condition is identical, Captain. 
WORF: Everyone and everything is gone. 
RIKER: Captain, I strongly recommend that we go to Red Alert. If the
Romulans have improved their cloaking device, and we'd be fools to
believe they haven't, we should assume a more defensive posture. 
WORF: I agree, Captain. I recommend we go immediately to battle
stations. 
PICARD: I appreciate your advice and concern, but this is not the time
for rash actions. We are still investigating.
There are three other stations in this sector we have to visit. Let's
proceed in a calm and orderly manner. 
RIKER: If not battle stations, may we at least take the ship to Yellow
Alert? 
PICARD: Yes, Number One. That would be prudent. Make it so. 
[Corridor]

(Ralph is walking along, and notices a woman come
out of a turbolift. He goes in) 
[Turbolift]

RALPH: Ah, let's see. I want to go to the, er.
Where would the Captain be? 
COMPUTER: Captain Picard is located on the main Bridge. 
RALPH: Well then, take me to the main Bridge.

