RIKER RALPH [OC] CLARE PICARD RALPH SONNY RIKER [OC] DATA
firm right science changed able offenhouse data accumulation talk

[Guest lounge]

RALPH: I need to talk to you. 
[Ready room]

PICARD: What is going on here, Number One? Did you
give him permission to contact me? 
RIKER: Of course not. He must have seen me use the comm. panel. 
PICARD: Listen, Mister Offenhouse. We're in a very important conference
right now. 
RALPH [OC]: I'm sick and tired of being put off 
[Guest lounge]

RALPH: By you and your staff. This is the worst run
ship I have ever been on. 
[Ready room]

RALPH [OC]: You should take some lessons from the
QE Two. Now that's an efficient operation. 
PICARD: Data, identify. What is a QE Two? 
DATA: It was a passenger liner which mostly travelled Earth's Atlantic
Ocean during the late twentieth and early twenty first centuries. 
PICARD: He's comparing the Enterprise to a cruise ship? 
RALPH [OC]: Captain Picard, I demand that you see me. I think I have
been very, very patient. 
[Guest lounge]

RALPH: I demand a phone, or a radio whatever else
you have. Frankly, enough is enough. Especially under the
circumstances, and considering what I paid for this procedure! I must
make contact with my law 
(Picard enters) 
PICARD: I'm Captain Picard. 
RALPH: Excellent. Now, maybe we'll be able to get some things
straightened out. 
PICARD: We may indeed. Those comm. panels are for official ship
business. 
RALPH: If they are so important, why don't they need an executive key? 
PICARD: Aboard a starship, that is not necessary. We are all capable of
exercising self-discipline. Now, you will refrain from using them. 
RALPH: Now just a minute. 
PICARD: We are in a very serious and potentially dangerous situation. 
RALPH: I'm sure whatever it is seems very important to you, but my
situation is far more critical. 
PICARD: I don't think you are aware of your situation, or of how much
time has passed. 
RALPH: Believe me, I'm fully cognisant of where I am, and when. It is
simply that I have more to protect than a man in your position could
possibly imagine. No offence, but a military career has never been
considered to be upwardly mobile. I must contact my lawyer. 
PICARD: Your lawyer has been dead for centuries. 
RALPH: Yes, of course I know that, but he was a full partner in a very
important firm. Rest assured, that firm is still operating. 
PICARD: That's what this is all about. A lot has changed in the past
three hundred years. People are no longer obsessed with the
accumulation of things. We've eliminated hunger, want, the need for
possessions. We have grown out of our infancy. 
RALPH: You've got it all wrong. It's never been about possessions. It's
about power. 
PICARD: Power to do what? 
RALPH: To control your life, your destiny. 
PICARD: That kind of control is an illusion. 
RALPH: Really? I'm here, aren't I? I should be dead but I'm not. 
(Clare starts weeping) 
PICARD: What is it? 
CLARE: I don't know. It just started and it won't stop. I keep thinking
about my boys. 
PICARD: Counsellor Troi, will you report to the guest lounge? 
RIKER [OC]: Captain, we are approaching Science Station Delta Zero
Five. 
PICARD: Slow to half impulse. I'm on my way. 
SONNY: Captain, I need to see that pretty little Doctor of yours. 
PICARD: I'll inform her. 
RALPH: Captain. I didn't mean to come on so strong. It's just that I've
built my whole life on knowing what's going on. For the first time I
feel completely out of touch. It's making me crazy. You can understand
that? 
PICARD: It's the first thing you've said I do understand. I'll see what
I can do. And, please, stay off the comm. panels. 
