PICARD [OC] RIKER WORF PICARD TROI COMPUTER CRUSHER DATA
sector sees hated send beverly outthink fad need minor

[Observation lounge]

PICARD: Two Federation outposts in sector three
zero have been destroyed. There's been no communication with Federation
starbases in sector three one since stardate 41903.2. 
WORF: Romulans. 
PICARD: That's the assumption. 
RIKER: There's been no direct contact with the Romulans since the Tomed
Incident. 
PICARD: The question are, why now? What's their objective? For fifty
years there's barely a whisper out of them, and now for no apparent
reason they seem to be back with a roar. 
RIKER: Everything we know about them is based on rumour or conjecture. 
PICARD: The strategic decision is to send one ship. 
RIKER: The Enterprise. 
WORF: We could get out there and find ourselves greatly over-matched. 
PICARD: True enough. It's a gamble. 
RIKER: This first encounter, coming so suddenly after all this time. We
have to assume it's a setup. 
PICARD: If force is necessary, we will use it, but that will mean we
have failed. Our goal here is to establish some kind of relations with
the Romulans. If we don't succeed, then to convince them of our
resolve. The general feeling at Starfleet is that they are seeking a
confrontation. They may want to test themselves in battle against a
Federation starship. See how far we have advanced. If that is the case,
then I need to know it. Counsellor, I shall need a full profile on
them. 
TROI: There is limited information, but I will prepare something. 
PICARD: Computer, estimated arrival time at the Neutral Zone? 
COMPUTER: Nineteen hours, twenty eight minutes. 
PICARD: Let's reassemble in six hours. Stay sharp. No surprises. I
would rather outthink them than outfight them. Questions?

[Sickbay]

PICARD: What is it, Doctor? 
CRUSHER: It's the people from the capsule. 
PICARD: Capsule? People? What people? 
CRUSHER: The people Data beamed over. 
PICARD: I wasn't aware that he had. 
CRUSHER: Well he did, and they were frozen. I thawed them. 
PICARD: You what? 
CRUSHER: I didn't know what else to do. The crypts in which they were
frozen were literally falling apart. 
PICARD: So what's their condition? 
CRUSHER: Right now, they are all sleeping. Each of them needed minor
medical attention. Minor now, but then their conditions were obviously
terminal. One had a heart problem, another had an advanced case of
emphysema with extensive liver damage. You know the most surprising
thing of all, is that each of them had been frozen after they died. 
PICARD: After they died? 
CRUSHER: Cryonics. It was a kind of fad in the late twentieth century.
People feared dying. It terrified them. At the moment of death, they
would be frozen, so that later, some time in the future, when
presumably medical science had a cure for whatever killed them, they
could be thawed back to life, healed, and sent on about their business.

PICARD: In the case of this group, it apparently worked. Mister Data,
will you report to Sickbay.

[Bridge]

PICARD [OC]: Immediately. 

[Sickbay]

PICARD: Look, I am never critical of any member of
my staff being curious, but it's just that the timing is so 
DATA: I could not leave them there, Captain. The condition of their
vehicle was deteriorating. 
PICARD: But Data, they were already dead. I mean, what more could have
happened to them? 
DATA: I see your point, Captain, but at the time it seemed the proper
thing to do. 
PICARD: Well, they're alive now. We're going to have to treat them as
living human beings. 
CRUSHER: Alive and well and ready to be awakened. 
PICARD: Before you wake them up, I want to have Security here.
Lieutenant Worf, report to Sickbay. 
CRUSHER: I have them sedated now, but they should be up and about as
soon as possible. 
PICARD: Well, then we have no other choice. 
CRUSHER: None that I can see. 
(Worf enters, and Beverly puts a hypo to the woman's neck. She wakes,
sees Picard, then Beverly, and smiles. Then she starts to sit up, sees
Worf, and faints) 
PICARD: Welcome to the twenty fourth century. 
DATA: I was able to retrieve some information from the ancient disk I
removed from the module's computer. Her name is Clare Raymond, age
thirty five, occupation homemaker. Must be some kind of construction
work. 
CRUSHER: She died of an embolism. It probably happened very suddenly,
otherwise her physical condition was excellent. 
(A nurse wakes Clare up, again) 
DATA: His name is Ralph Offenhouse, age fifty five, occupation
financier. 
CRUSHER: Advanced cardiomyopathy. Inoperable at the time, but easily
correctable now. He must have known his condition was terminal for
quite some time. 
(Ralph is woken) 
DATA: Much of his file we could not retrieved. His name is L Q Sonny
Clemonds. Apparently his occupation had something to do with music. 
CRUSHER: There was marked deterioration of every system in his body.
Probably from massive chemical abuse. Unbelievable. 
PICARD: That sounds like someone who hated life. Yet he had himself
frozen presumably so he could go through it all again. 
CRUSHER: Too afraid to live, too scared to die. 
PICARD: Doctor, this seems to be a situation more suited to your
talents. I'll leave it with you. I'll be on the Bridge.

[Bridge]

PICARD: Number One, kindly take charge of our
guests until we have time to decide what we're going to do with them. 
RIKER: Aye, sir. 
PICARD: Number One, keep them out of my way. 
