TROI CLARE PICARD SONNY COMPUTER RIKER [OC] CRUSHER DATA
couldn buffer progeny knew scuffle did nervous report husband

[Corridor]

PICARD: Counsellor, will you get those people under
control. We cannot afford this continuing distraction. 
TROI: Yes, sir.

[Clare's quarters]

(There's a model of NCC1701 on a stand) 
TROI: Hello. My name is Deanna. 
CLARE: They sent you here to settle me down? 
TROI: I'm the ship's Counsellor and I thought you might want to talk. 
CLARE: The local shrink. 
TROI: I'm sorry, I'm not familiar with that term. 
CLARE: It doesn't matter. 
TROI: You're feeling profoundly sad. 
CLARE: I can't stop crying. I miss my sons, and then I think I'm here,
but they are gone. Donald, that's my husband. I love that man but, good
intentions aside, he'd mess up a free lunch. Why on Earth he ever
decided to do this? 
TROI: He must have thought you would have wanted it. 
CLARE: No, I can tell you exactly what happened. He couldn't think
about going on alone. I died and he couldn't face it, so he figured if
he had me frozen, then in his mind I wasn't really gone. It sounds
crazy, but you had to know Donald. I wish I knew what happened to my
children. Did they get married, did they have kids? 
TROI: Let's see if we can find out. Computer, this is Counsellor Troi.
Request personal history on. What are their names? 
CLARE: Tommy. He's eight, and Eddie's five. 
COMPUTER: Full names, date and place of birth. 
CLARE: They were born in Secaucus, that's in Jersey. Can this really
work? Can this tell me what's happened to them? 
TROI: Well, there must be a record somewhere. There is a good chance we
can find it. 
CLARE: Well, whether we do or not, I want to thank you for trying. Date
of birth. Tommy was born February seventeenth

[Sickbay]

SONNY: I just got to have a little something to
jump start the morning, and a little something else to shut down the
night. 
CRUSHER: You have no medical need. 
SONNY: It ain't a question of need, darling. It's a matter of survival.

CRUSHER: Sorry. 
SONNY: Not to worry. Old Watosh'll scuffle along the best way he can.
How do I get a hold of that feller with the strange looking face? 
CRUSHER: I beg your pardon? 
SONNY: What's his name. That android fella. 
CRUSHER: You mean Lieutenant Commander Data? 
SONNY: That's the one. 
CRUSHER: I'll let him know you're looking for him. 
SONNY: Much obliged. You know, you're just about the prettiest little
old Doctor I ever seen. 
CRUSHER: Much obliged.

[Clare's quarters]

(Family trees are whizzing across the screen) 
CLARE: This is amazing. It's all right here. 
TROI: Ten generations of your progeny. 
CLARE: Everyone I've ever known is dead. Do you mind? I'd like to be
alone. 
TROI: No, not at all.

[Sonny's quarters]

(also with a model NCC1701) 
DATA: You asked to see me. 
SONNY: Look, I'm about to go out of my mind for something to do. I
mean, sitting here alone just don't get it. What say you and I put
together a little party? 
DATA: A celebration? 
SONNY: No, nothing that fancy. Just some folks, some suds, and some
sounds. Hell, it ain't nothing but something to do. 
DATA: I will speak to the Captain. 
SONNY: Great, you do that. 
DATA: Inquiry. You do not seem to be having as much difficulty
adjusting to your current circumstances as the others. 
SONNY: You mean being here on this tub four hundred years from where I
started? Heck, it's the same dance, it's just a different tune. You
think anybody here's got a guitar I could borrow? 
DATA: No, but the computer can replicate such an instrument. 
SONNY: I was kind of hoping to get one while I still remember the
chords. 
RIKER [OC]: Commander Data, we are approaching the Neutral Zone. Report
to the Bridge. 
DATA: I must leave now. 
SONNY: What's this Neutral Zone? 
DATA: It is a buffer between the Romulan Empire and the Federation. 
SONNY: Why does that make me nervous? 
DATA: I do not know. 
SONNY: We won't be inviting these Romulans to our party, will we? 
DATA: No, that would not be appropriate.

Captain's log, supplemental. We have arrived at the
edge of the Neutral Zone, where we will now have an opportunity to
learn firsthand what happened to our distant outpost.

