SONNY CLARE PICARD RALPH TROI COMPUTER RIKER CRUSHER

[Guest lounge]

RALPH: I demand a phone, or a radio whatever else
you have. Frankly, enough is enough. Especially under the
circumstances, and considering what I paid for this procedure! I must
make contact with my law 
(Picard enters) 
PICARD: I'm Captain Picard. 
RALPH: Excellent. Now, maybe we'll be able to get some things
straightened out. 
PICARD: We may indeed. Those comm. panels are for official ship
business. 
RALPH: If they are so important, why don't they need an executive key? 
PICARD: Aboard a starship, that is not necessary. We are all capable of
exercising self-discipline. Now, you will refrain from using them. 
RALPH: Now just a minute. 
PICARD: We are in a very serious and potentially dangerous situation. 
RALPH: I'm sure whatever it is seems very important to you, but my
situation is far more critical. 
PICARD: I don't think you are aware of your situation, or of how much
time has passed. 
RALPH: Believe me, I'm fully cognisant of where I am, and when. It is
simply that I have more to protect than a man in your position could
possibly imagine. No offence, but a military career has never been
considered to be upwardly mobile. I must contact my lawyer. 
PICARD: Your lawyer has been dead for centuries. 
RALPH: Yes, of course I know that, but he was a full partner in a very
important firm. Rest assured, that firm is still operating. 
PICARD: That's what this is all about. A lot has changed in the past
three hundred years. People are no longer obsessed with the
accumulation of things. We've eliminated hunger, want, the need for
possessions. We have grown out of our infancy. 
RALPH: You've got it all wrong. It's never been about possessions. It's
about power. 
PICARD: Power to do what? 
RALPH: To control your life, your destiny. 
PICARD: That kind of control is an illusion. 
RALPH: Really? I'm here, aren't I? I should be dead but I'm not. 
(Clare starts weeping) 
PICARD: What is it? 
CLARE: I don't know. It just started and it won't stop. I keep thinking
about my boys. 
PICARD: Counsellor Troi, will you report to the guest lounge? 
RIKER [OC]: Captain, we are approaching Science Station Delta Zero
Five. 
PICARD: Slow to half impulse. I'm on my way. 
SONNY: Captain, I need to see that pretty little Doctor of yours. 
PICARD: I'll inform her. 
RALPH: Captain. I didn't mean to come on so strong. It's just that I've
built my whole life on knowing what's going on. For the first time I
feel completely out of touch. It's making me crazy. You can understand
that? 
PICARD: It's the first thing you've said I do understand. I'll see what
I can do. And, please, stay off the comm. panels. 
[Corridor]

PICARD: Counsellor, will you get those people under
control. We cannot afford this continuing distraction. 
TROI: Yes, sir.

[Clare's quarters]

(There's a model of NCC1701 on a stand) 
TROI: Hello. My name is Deanna. 
CLARE: They sent you here to settle me down? 
TROI: I'm the ship's Counsellor and I thought you might want to talk. 
CLARE: The local shrink. 
TROI: I'm sorry, I'm not familiar with that term. 
CLARE: It doesn't matter. 
TROI: You're feeling profoundly sad. 
CLARE: I can't stop crying. I miss my sons, and then I think I'm here,
but they are gone. Donald, that's my husband. I love that man but, good
intentions aside, he'd mess up a free lunch. Why on Earth he ever
decided to do this? 
TROI: He must have thought you would have wanted it. 
CLARE: No, I can tell you exactly what happened. He couldn't think
about going on alone. I died and he couldn't face it, so he figured if
he had me frozen, then in his mind I wasn't really gone. It sounds
crazy, but you had to know Donald. I wish I knew what happened to my
children. Did they get married, did they have kids? 
TROI: Let's see if we can find out. Computer, this is Counsellor Troi.
Request personal history on. What are their names? 
CLARE: Tommy. He's eight, and Eddie's five. 
COMPUTER: Full names, date and place of birth. 
CLARE: They were born in Secaucus, that's in Jersey. Can this really
work? Can this tell me what's happened to them? 
TROI: Well, there must be a record somewhere. There is a good chance we
can find it. 
CLARE: Well, whether we do or not, I want to thank you for trying. Date
of birth. Tommy was born February seventeenth

[Sickbay]

SONNY: I just got to have a little something to
jump start the morning, and a little something else to shut down the
night. 
CRUSHER: You have no medical need. 
SONNY: It ain't a question of need, darling. It's a matter of survival.

CRUSHER: Sorry. 
SONNY: Not to worry. Old Watosh'll scuffle along the best way he can.
How do I get a hold of that feller with the strange looking face? 
CRUSHER: I beg your pardon? 
SONNY: What's his name. That android fella. 
CRUSHER: You mean Lieutenant Commander Data? 
SONNY: That's the one. 
CRUSHER: I'll let him know you're looking for him. 
SONNY: Much obliged. You know, you're just about the prettiest little
old Doctor I ever seen. 
CRUSHER: Much obliged.

[Clare's quarters]

(Family trees are whizzing across the screen) 
CLARE: This is amazing. It's all right here. 
TROI: Ten generations of your progeny. 
CLARE: Everyone I've ever known is dead. Do you mind? I'd like to be
alone. 
TROI: No, not at all.

