TROI LAFORGE WORF PICARD RIKER COMPUTER CRUSHER DATA

[Bridge]

RIKER: Are you suggesting they be transferred to
the Enterprise? 
[Cryo chamber]

DATA: I do not believe we should leave them here,
sir. With your permission, we will be returning with three containers. 
RIKER [OC]: Whatever you do, do it quickly.

[Bridge]

PICARD: Mister La Forge, set course zero five
eight, mark one seven three. 
LAFORGE: Laying it in, sir. 
PICARD: Number One, I want a staff meeting on the observation deck. 
LAFORGE: Captain, those coordinates will take us right into the Neutral
Zone. 
PICARD: That is correct, Mister La Forge. Warp factor eight. 
LAFORGE: Aye, sir. Warp eight. 
PICARD: Engage. 
[Observation lounge]

PICARD: Two Federation outposts in sector three
zero have been destroyed. There's been no communication with Federation
starbases in sector three one since stardate 41903.2. 
WORF: Romulans. 
PICARD: That's the assumption. 
RIKER: There's been no direct contact with the Romulans since the Tomed
Incident. 
PICARD: The question are, why now? What's their objective? For fifty
years there's barely a whisper out of them, and now for no apparent
reason they seem to be back with a roar. 
RIKER: Everything we know about them is based on rumour or conjecture. 
PICARD: The strategic decision is to send one ship. 
RIKER: The Enterprise. 
WORF: We could get out there and find ourselves greatly over-matched. 
PICARD: True enough. It's a gamble. 
RIKER: This first encounter, coming so suddenly after all this time. We
have to assume it's a setup. 
PICARD: If force is necessary, we will use it, but that will mean we
have failed. Our goal here is to establish some kind of relations with
the Romulans. If we don't succeed, then to convince them of our
resolve. The general feeling at Starfleet is that they are seeking a
confrontation. They may want to test themselves in battle against a
Federation starship. See how far we have advanced. If that is the case,
then I need to know it. Counsellor, I shall need a full profile on
them. 
TROI: There is limited information, but I will prepare something. 
PICARD: Computer, estimated arrival time at the Neutral Zone? 
COMPUTER: Nineteen hours, twenty eight minutes. 
PICARD: Let's reassemble in six hours. Stay sharp. No surprises. I
would rather outthink them than outfight them. Questions?

[Sickbay]

PICARD: What is it, Doctor? 
CRUSHER: It's the people from the capsule. 
PICARD: Capsule? People? What people? 
CRUSHER: The people Data beamed over. 
PICARD: I wasn't aware that he had. 
CRUSHER: Well he did, and they were frozen. I thawed them. 
PICARD: You what? 
CRUSHER: I didn't know what else to do. The crypts in which they were
frozen were literally falling apart. 
PICARD: So what's their condition? 
CRUSHER: Right now, they are all sleeping. Each of them needed minor
medical attention. Minor now, but then their conditions were obviously
terminal. One had a heart problem, another had an advanced case of
emphysema with extensive liver damage. You know the most surprising
thing of all, is that each of them had been frozen after they died. 
PICARD: After they died? 
CRUSHER: Cryonics. It was a kind of fad in the late twentieth century.
People feared dying. It terrified them. At the moment of death, they
would be frozen, so that later, some time in the future, when
presumably medical science had a cure for whatever killed them, they
could be thawed back to life, healed, and sent on about their business.

PICARD: In the case of this group, it apparently worked. Mister Data,
will you report to Sickbay.

