SONNY LAFORGE WORF CLARE PICARD RALPH RIKER TEBOK [on viewscreen] COMPUTER TEBOK [On viewscreen] DATA THEI [on viewscreen]
sector tarod appear fate assume relaxed turbolift killed concern

[Guest lounge]

RALPH: I have spent my career being able to tell
when the other guy's mouth is dry. There is something going on here.
Something serious. The tension level on this ship has jumped up. 
SONNY: Even if you're right, what can we do about it? And besides,
these old boys here don't need us telling them where the bear sits.
Look here what that young fella made for me. 
(It's a guitar) 
CLARE: How did he do that? 
SONNY: He called it a pattern replication. It plays real good, too. 
RALPH: I'm trying to tell you that there is a situation developing on
this vessel that directly affects us, and all you can talk about is
that stupid guitar! 
SONNY: Hey, now, these folks don't need us swimming in their soup, so
why don't you just relax and let'em do their jobs? 
RALPH: That may be all right for you, but I am not willing to allow my
fate to be decided by others. I at least want to know what is going on.

[Bridge]

LAFORGE: We are approaching Tarod Nine. 
DATA: The condition is identical, Captain. 
WORF: Everyone and everything is gone. 
RIKER: Captain, I strongly recommend that we go to Red Alert. If the
Romulans have improved their cloaking device, and we'd be fools to
believe they haven't, we should assume a more defensive posture. 
WORF: I agree, Captain. I recommend we go immediately to battle
stations. 
PICARD: I appreciate your advice and concern, but this is not the time
for rash actions. We are still investigating.
There are three other stations in this sector we have to visit. Let's
proceed in a calm and orderly manner. 
RIKER: If not battle stations, may we at least take the ship to Yellow
Alert? 
PICARD: Yes, Number One. That would be prudent. Make it so. 
[Corridor]

(Ralph is walking along, and notices a woman come
out of a turbolift. He goes in) 
[Turbolift]

RALPH: Ah, let's see. I want to go to the, er.
Where would the Captain be? 
COMPUTER: Captain Picard is located on the main Bridge. 
RALPH: Well then, take me to the main Bridge.

[Bridge]

WORF: Captain, my sensors indicate a disturbance.
It is large and moving, but I cannot get a positive lock nor can I get
it on the viewscreen. 
RIKER: Shields up. 
WORF: Aye, sir. 
RIKER: Captain, I recommend we transfer all power to phasers, and arm
the photon
torpedoes. 
PICARD: Wait. If that is a Romulan ship, they will read our intent.
It'll force them into taking a similar posture. We don't want to engage
in battle. 
RIKER: Captain, this is sufficient evidence. Outposts have been
destroyed. Countless lives have been lost. 
WORF: I have a positive lock. They're disengaging their cloaking
device. 
RIKER: They'll only be vulnerable for an instant as they become
visible. 
WORF: Captain, this may be our only chance. 
PICARD: No. 
RIKER: Where are they? 
WORF: The signal is weakening. 
(Ralph quietly enters the Bridge) 
WORF: I've lost them. 
PICARD: Damn. Mister Data, are your sensors picking up anything? You
should be detecting a disturbance. 
DATA: Negative, sir. 
LAFORGE: We wanted to know if they have improved the cloaking device.
Guess we have our answer. 
PICARD: (to Riker) They were trying to determine our intent. They
wanted to see if we would fire. 
RALPH: Who the hell are they? 
RIKER: Get that man off the Bridge, now. 
RALPH: I'm not going anywhere. 
WORF: Captain, they're back. 
(A big green warbird appears on the viewscreen) 
RIKER: Amazing. I never thought I would ever see a Romulan ship. Not
this close. 
LAFORGE: The last time we encountered them was decades ago. Cost
thousands of lives. 
RALPH: I can believe that. 
PICARD: Stay calm, everyone. Open hailing frequencies. 
WORF: Captain, these are Romulans. They are without honour. They killed
my parents in an attack on Khitomer when they were supposed to be our
allies. They believe humans and Klingons are a waste of skin. 
PICARD: Lieutenant, control your emotions. Please, open hailing
frequencies. 
WORF: Hailing frequencies open. 
PICARD: Romulan vessel, this is Captain Jean-Luc Picard of the USS
Enterprise. 
DATA: Sensors indicate all of their systems are armed, sir. 
PICARD: But they've not fired. Let's try them again. 
(Two seated Romulans appear, one relaxed and sitting back, one leaning
forward. The relaxed one speaks) 
TEBOK [on viewscreen]: I am Commander Tebok. 
PICARD: Commander, you have crossed the Neutral Zone. This is
Federation territory. 
THEI [on viewscreen]: It was necessary. 
PICARD: It might be viewed as an act of aggression. 
THEI [on viewscreen]: If our intent were aggression, you would not be
here now. 
TEBOK [On viewscreen]: If we go to war, let us be sure it is for the
right reason. We are here because our outposts, which border the
Neutral Zone, were also attacked. 
THEI [on viewscreen]: Destroyed in the exact same manner as your own. 
WORF: Even so, what gives them the right to enter Federation space? 
TEBOK [on viewscreen]: Silence your dog, Captain. 
PICARD: Lieutenant Worf's question is valid. 
THEI [on viewscreen]: To even to ask such a question implies that we
need permission. We do not. 
PICARD: Do you think that we attacked your outposts? 
TEBOK [on viewscreen]: Once we realised the level of destruction, we
knew it could not have been you. 
PICARD: Who is responsible? 
RALPH: They haven't got a clue. They're hoping you know, but they're
too arrogant to ask. 
RIKER: You're out of line, Mister. 
PICARD: Yes, but it's a correct assessment. 
TEBOK [on viewscreen]: We do not know who is responsible. Why entire
outposts on both sides have been carried off. 
PICARD: I would like to offer a proposal. 
THEI [on viewscreen]: An alliance? Between the Romulans and the
Federation? 
PICARD: Nothing so grandiose. Just this. Cooperation. There was an
intent here. Whoever or whatever did this is more powerful than either
of us. Let's collaborate. Let's share whatever we learn about what has
happened here. 
THEI [on viewscreen]: Agreed. On this one issue. And only if it is
convenient and appropriate at the time. 
TEBOK [on viewscreen]: Captain Picard, because your actions are those
of a thoughtful man, I'll you this. Matters more urgent caused our
absence. Now, witness the result. Outposts destroyed, expansion of the
Federation everywhere. Yes, we have indeed been negligent, Captain. But
no more. 
PICARD: Commander, we have made some progress here. Let's not ruin that
with unnecessary posturing. 
TEBOK [on viewscreen]: Your presence is not wanted. Do you understand
my meaning, Captain? We are back. 
(Transmission ends) 
PICARD: I think our lives just became a lot more complicated. Get him
off my Bridge.

