RIKER WORF PICARD LAFORGE [OC] TROI DEALT [on viewscreen] PULASKI WESLEY GUINAN SICKBAY SICKBAY [OC] DATA
ago exactly human half report fine think projects left

[Bridge]

PICARD: Number One. 
RIKER: Lieutenant La Forge says we will be able to engage the warp
drive within the hour. 
PICARD: Grand. Mister Data, when we have a complete list of all the
specimens we will be carrying, I want you and Doctor er, 
DATA: Pulaski, sir. 
PICARD: Doctor Pulaski. I want you to go through them. 
DATA: Aye, sir. 
PICARD: By the way, where is our new doctor? Has she reported in? 
RIKER: Not yet. 
PICARD: Sickbay, this is the captain. 
SICKBAY: Sickbay, aye. 
PICARD: Is Doctor Pulaski there? 
SICKBAY [OC]: Er, no, sir. The Doctor is in Ten forward. 
PICARD: Thank you. 
SICKBAY [OC]: Aye, sir. 
PICARD: A few hours on board and already she's found Ten forward. 
RIKER: I'll go get her. 
PICARD: No. I'll go. 
WORF: (nice new heavy baldric) Not the best way to meet your new
Captain.

[Turbolift]

(Wesley has come out of the lift and gone straight
back in with Picard) 
PICARD: Deck ten, forward station one. 
WESLEY: Hello, Captain. 
PICARD: Ensign. I'm sorry this mission will delay your reunion with
your mother. 
WESLEY: That's all right. That will give me the time to finish some
projects I have to do. It's going to be hard leaving the Enterprise. 
PICARD: Mixed feelings for all of us. It's always difficult leaving any
ship, just as it was for your mother 
[Corridor]

PICARD: When she left to become head of Starfleet
Medical. But going from one assignment to another is part of the life
which you are choosing. 
WESLEY: I know, but this isn't any ship. 
PICARD: How true.

[Ten forward]

(A social area, with a long bar. A woman in a big
flat hat comes to greet Picard)
PICARD: Guinan. 
GUINAN: Captain. 
PICARD: Where is Doctor Pulaski? (Guinan points) Thank you. 
(Picard goes over to a table by a window occupied by Troi and another
woman. Everyone say Hi! to
 Ann Mulhall,
or 
Miranda Jones
if you prefer) 
PICARD: Doctor Katherine Pulaski? 
PULASKI: Ah you must be Captain Picard. 
PICARD: Doctor, protocol may have been lax on your last assignment, but
here on the Enterprise. 
PULASKI: Sit down, Captain. You'd better listen to this.

[Observation lounge]

PICARD: Lieutenant La Forge, status report. 
LAFORGE [OC]: The containment area is completed, Captain, and the last
of the modules are being inserted. 
PICARD: Take us to warp six as soon as possible. 
LAFORGE [OC]: Acknowledged. 
PICARD: This is Doctor Katherine Pulaski. We will handle the formal
introduction later. Counsellor Deanna Troi is pregnant. She is going to
have a baby. 
RIKER: Baby? This is a surprise. 
(Deanna is sitting alone at the end, somewhat embarrassed) 
TROI: More so for me. 
PULASKI: This pregnancy is unlike anything I have ever encountered.
Since she came to me a few hours ago, I have done two complete
examinations of Counsellor Troi. (goes to wall screen) This is from the
first examination. The foetus is about halfway through the first
trimester, about six weeks old. Now, understand we believe conception
took place eleven hours ago. 
RIKER: What? 
PULASKI: It gets better. This is the second exam one hour later. Now,
it's consistent, except for the fact that it appears the foetus is
several weeks older. At this growth rate, Counsellor Troi will have her
baby in about thirty six hours. The normal gestation rate for a
Betazoid is ten months. 
RIKER: I don't mean to be indelicate, but who's the father? 
TROI: Last night, while I slept, something which I can only describe as
a presence, entered my body. 
PICARD: A life form of unknown origin and intent is breeding right now
inside Counsellor Troi. Our purpose here is to determine what is to be
done about this very unusual situation. Discussion. 
RIKER: No, wait. Let me get this straight. Deanna was impregnated by by
what? Doctor, what do the tests show? Is it a humanoid? An alien? 
PULASKI: It's a male human, or in this case half-human half-Betazoid. 
RIKER: Exactly the same as Deanna. 
PULASKI: In every way. In fact, there is nothing to indicate that there
are any genetic patterns other than hers. 
RIKER: I don't think this is a random occurrence. I think there's a
purpose here. A reason. What, I don't know. 
WORF: Captain, obviously the pregnancy must be terminated for the
safety of the ship and crew. 
RIKER: Worf, you can't assume the intent was belligerent. 
WORF: That is the safest assumption. 
DATA: Captain, this is a life form. Not to allow it to develop
naturally would deny us the opportunity to study it. 
WORF: If the foetus is aborted, laboratory analysis is still possible. 
RIKER: Doctor, is there any health risk to Counsellor Troi if the
foetus is aborted? 
TROI: Captain, do whatever you feel is necessary to protect the ship
and the crew, but know this. I'm going to have this baby. 
PICARD: Then it seems that the discussion is over.

Captain's log, supplemental. We have finally
arrived at 'audet Nine, where we will pick up the specimens of plasma
plague for transport to Rachelis. It is only because so many lives are
at stake that I am willing to put this ship and crew at such great
risk. Meanwhile, Counsellor Troi's pregnancy continues to progress at
an astonishing rate. 
[Bridge]

(Troi enters, very out of uniform and with a
noticeable bump) 
PICARD: How are you feeling? 
TROI: I should be feeling uncomfortable with all the changes in my body
but, I don't. I feel fine. Better than fine. Wonderful. 
RIKER: Standard orbit. 
WESLEY: Standard orbit, sir. 
PICARD: Open hailing frequencies. 
WORF: Hailing frequencies open. 
PICARD: 'Audet Nine, this is Captain Jean-Luc Picard of the USS
Enterprise. 
DEALT [on viewscreen]: Ah, the Enterprise, here at last. Well, good.
Let's get going. 
PICARD: Excuse me, to whom am I speaking? 
DEALT [on viewscreen]: To whom are you speaking? Oh I'm Lieutenant
Commander Hester Dealt, Medical Trustee, Federation Medical Collection
Station. 
PICARD: Are the specimens ready for transfer? 
DEALT [on viewscreen]: Yes, but with your permission I would like to
inspect the containment area before we proceed. Now it's not that I
doubt the ability of your crew, but we cannot afford a mistake. 
PICARD: I appreciate your caution. In the like vein, I want a complete,
detailed manifest of everything you intend to bring on board my ship. 
DEALT [on viewscreen]: Very good. I will allow access you to my
computer banks, okay? 
(transmission ends) 
PICARD: Mister Data, download the inventory and cross-reference it with
the medical computer. Number One, arrange to have Hester Dealt
transported up. 
Captain's log, supplemental. Although it's been
fourteen hours since we arrived at
'audet Nine. Hester Dealt has still not completed inspection of the
containment unit. A transfer will not be permitted until he's assured
of zero growth during our voyage. Meanwhile, the desperate pleas from
the Rachelis System continue.

