TROI LAFORGE WORF PICARD RIKER PULASKI WESLEY DEALT NURSE DATA

[Observation lounge]

PICARD: Lieutenant La Forge, status report. 
LAFORGE [OC]: The containment area is completed, Captain, and the last
of the modules are being inserted. 
PICARD: Take us to warp six as soon as possible. 
LAFORGE [OC]: Acknowledged. 
PICARD: This is Doctor Katherine Pulaski. We will handle the formal
introduction later. Counsellor Deanna Troi is pregnant. She is going to
have a baby. 
RIKER: Baby? This is a surprise. 
(Deanna is sitting alone at the end, somewhat embarrassed) 
TROI: More so for me. 
PULASKI: This pregnancy is unlike anything I have ever encountered.
Since she came to me a few hours ago, I have done two complete
examinations of Counsellor Troi. (goes to wall screen) This is from the
first examination. The foetus is about halfway through the first
trimester, about six weeks old. Now, understand we believe conception
took place eleven hours ago. 
RIKER: What? 
PULASKI: It gets better. This is the second exam one hour later. Now,
it's consistent, except for the fact that it appears the foetus is
several weeks older. At this growth rate, Counsellor Troi will have her
baby in about thirty six hours. The normal gestation rate for a
Betazoid is ten months. 
RIKER: I don't mean to be indelicate, but who's the father? 
TROI: Last night, while I slept, something which I can only describe as
a presence, entered my body. 
PICARD: A life form of unknown origin and intent is breeding right now
inside Counsellor Troi. Our purpose here is to determine what is to be
done about this very unusual situation. Discussion. 
RIKER: No, wait. Let me get this straight. Deanna was impregnated by by
what? Doctor, what do the tests show? Is it a humanoid? An alien? 
PULASKI: It's a male human, or in this case half-human half-Betazoid. 
RIKER: Exactly the same as Deanna. 
PULASKI: In every way. In fact, there is nothing to indicate that there
are any genetic patterns other than hers. 
RIKER: I don't think this is a random occurrence. I think there's a
purpose here. A reason. What, I don't know. 
WORF: Captain, obviously the pregnancy must be terminated for the
safety of the ship and crew. 
RIKER: Worf, you can't assume the intent was belligerent. 
WORF: That is the safest assumption. 
DATA: Captain, this is a life form. Not to allow it to develop
naturally would deny us the opportunity to study it. 
WORF: If the foetus is aborted, laboratory analysis is still possible. 
RIKER: Doctor, is there any health risk to Counsellor Troi if the
foetus is aborted? 
TROI: Captain, do whatever you feel is necessary to protect the ship
and the crew, but know this. I'm going to have this baby. 
PICARD: Then it seems that the discussion is over.

Captain's log, supplemental. We have finally
arrived at 'audet Nine, where we will pick up the specimens of plasma
plague for transport to Rachelis. It is only because so many lives are
at stake that I am willing to put this ship and crew at such great
risk. Meanwhile, Counsellor Troi's pregnancy continues to progress at
an astonishing rate. 
[Bridge]

(Troi enters, very out of uniform and with a
noticeable bump) 
PICARD: How are you feeling? 
TROI: I should be feeling uncomfortable with all the changes in my body
but, I don't. I feel fine. Better than fine. Wonderful. 
RIKER: Standard orbit. 
WESLEY: Standard orbit, sir. 
PICARD: Open hailing frequencies. 
WORF: Hailing frequencies open. 
PICARD: 'Audet Nine, this is Captain Jean-Luc Picard of the USS
Enterprise. 
DEALT [on viewscreen]: Ah, the Enterprise, here at last. Well, good.
Let's get going. 
PICARD: Excuse me, to whom am I speaking? 
DEALT [on viewscreen]: To whom are you speaking? Oh I'm Lieutenant
Commander Hester Dealt, Medical Trustee, Federation Medical Collection
Station. 
PICARD: Are the specimens ready for transfer? 
DEALT [on viewscreen]: Yes, but with your permission I would like to
inspect the containment area before we proceed. Now it's not that I
doubt the ability of your crew, but we cannot afford a mistake. 
PICARD: I appreciate your caution. In the like vein, I want a complete,
detailed manifest of everything you intend to bring on board my ship. 
DEALT [on viewscreen]: Very good. I will allow access you to my
computer banks, okay? 
(transmission ends) 
PICARD: Mister Data, download the inventory and cross-reference it with
the medical computer. Number One, arrange to have Hester Dealt
transported up. 
Captain's log, supplemental. Although it's been
fourteen hours since we arrived at
'audet Nine. Hester Dealt has still not completed inspection of the
containment unit. A transfer will not be permitted until he's assured
of zero growth during our voyage. Meanwhile, the desperate pleas from
the Rachelis System continue.

[Bridge]

DATA: Captain, the final manifest has been
received. 
PICARD: At last. Review it with Doctor Pulaski. I want you both to be
completely familiar with it. 
DATA: Aye, sir.

[Corridor]

TROI: Data, will you help me get to Sickbay.

[Pulaski's office]

TROI: It's time. 
PULASKI: Oh, you bet it is. Let's get you to Maternity. 
DATA: Worf, assemble your security team in Sickbay. 
PULASKI: Is that necessary? 
DATA: Yes, Doctor. Captain's orders. 
PULASKI: Well, it's strange to need armed guards in a delivery room.
This way. 
[Sickbay]

PULASKI: How frequent are your contractions? 
TROI: Very close together. 
PULASKI: In my other deliveries, except for a couple, the father was
always present. 
TROI: Difficult under the circumstances. 
DATA: Perhaps I could serve in that capacity. 
PULASKI: Counsellor Troi is going to need the comfort of a human touch,
not the cold hand of technology. 
TROI: Doctor, I think Commander Data will do very nicely. 
PULASKI: Your choice. 
(A little later, Deanna is in the birthing chair, almost upright) 
TROI: You don't have to do anything, Data. Just be with me. 
PULASKI: There is nothing to be nervous about. 
DATA: Nervous? I find this very interesting. Although I understand, in
technical terms, how life is formed, there is still a part of the
process which eludes me. The child inside you, are you able to access
his thought process? Does he have thoughts? You are aware of him. Is he
aware of you? And when does that awareness begin? 
TROI: It's happening. 
DATA: How does it feel? 
TROI: Data! 
DATA: Yes? 
TROI: Now!
DATA: Now? Now! Doctor! Doctor! Doctor! 
PULASKI: This is an impatient baby. He's eager to make his appearance.
Do you want something for the pain? It will in no way diminish the
experience. 
TROI: I have felt no pain. 
PULASKI: None? 
TROI: No, none at all. 
(Worf and two guards enter) 
PULASKI: Have your Security men stand back. I understand the importance
of having you here, but keep out from underfoot. Foetal position? 
NURSE: Normal. 
PULASKI: Foetal pulse? 
NURSE: One thirty seven. 
PULASKI: The baby is showing healthy respiratory movements. 
(Riker sneaks in to watch) 
PULASKI: (kneeling in front of Troi) The action of the heart rate is
good. The baby's doing wonderfully, Troi. Breathe slowly. You're doing
great. Stay calm. That's it. There it is. I've got him. You can relax. 
(Baby crying) 
PULASKI: (cleaning him off) There, there. That's a good boy. It's okay.
Oh, my, he's beautiful. (hands him to Troi) Are easy births the norm
for Betazoids? 
TROI: Not according to my mother. 
PULASKI: (to Worf) You can come in the rest of the way now. There's no
threat, Lieutenant. You and your men can relax. It's just a baby. 
(Worf looks and leaves) 
DATA: Thank you for allowing me to participate. It was remarkable. 
PULASKI: Do you have a name? 
TROI: Ian Andrew, after my father. 
(Riker comes forward) 
TROI: Were you hear all along? 
RIKER: Yes. He's beautiful, Deanna. Just like his mother. 
PULASKI: How do you feel? 
TROI: Fine. Wonderful. Thank you, Doctor, for everything. 
PULASKI: Amazing.

