TROI LAFORGE WORF PICARD RIKER PULASKI WESLEY DATA

[Bridge]

DATA: There it is again. An area of blackness. 
RIKER: It appears, then disappears, then reappears. No predictable
pattern, no sequence. 
PICARD: On screen. 
RIKER: There it is. 
PICARD: I can't see anything. Magnify section two eight five. 
WESLEY: There it is, sir. It's like a hole in space. 
PICARD: We're acquainted with the wormhole phenomenon, but this? This
appears quite different. What do your sensors indicate? 
DATA: Nothing, sir. 
RIKER: Nothing? 
PICARD: Mister Data, you must mean it's empty of matter. There's always
some energy form at work. 
DATA: Sir, our sensors are showing that to be an absence of everything.
It is a void without matter or energy of any kind. 
RIKER: Yet this hole has a form, Data. It has height, width. 
DATA: Perhaps. Perhaps not, sir. 
PICARD: That is hardly a scientific observation, Commander. 
DATA: Captain, the most elementary and valuable statement in science,
the beginning of wisdom, is I do not know.
I do not know what that is, sir. 
WESLEY: Captain, if this were any ordinary kind of hole in space
wouldn't we be able to see what's behind it? 
PICARD: Counsellor? 
TROI: I know what you're asking, but I feel nothing from it. 
RIKER: Data, is there any record anywhere of any occurrence even
vaguely similar to this? 
DATA: Accessing. Negative, sir. There is no record of any Federation
vessel encountering anything remotely like this. 
PICARD: Indeed. I believe we have time to take a closer look, Number
One. 
RIKER: Concur. Ensign, slow down to half impulse power. Adjust
coordinates to intercept this, this whatever it is. 
PICARD: Scanning and recording as we go. 
WESLEY: Aye, sir. Adjusting course to intercept in twelve minutes, sir.

(Twelve minutes later, at the black whatever) 
PICARD: Let's launch a probe into it. 
RIKER: Worf, prepare a scanner probe. Let's see what's in there. 
PICARD: This is close enough, Ensign. Hold this position. 
WESLEY: Aye, sir. Holding this position. 
RIKER: You may fire the probe when ready, Mister Worf. 
(The probe is launched) 
DATA: All the probe's systems are functioning perfectly. 
WORF: It's gone. 
PICARD: Data, what happened? 
DATA: Unknown, sir. 
WORF: Recommend we go to a Yellow Alert, sir. 
PICARD: Why? Explain. 
WORF: Sorry, sir. It's 
PICARD: Mister Worf, this starship operates best when my officers share
with me what is their minds. 
WORF: My thoughts were of an old Klingon legend of a gigantic black
space creature which was said to devour entire vessels. 
RIKER: Devour vessels? 
WORF: Sorry, Commander. I agree these are thoughts hardly worthy of a
trained and practical Security Officer. 
PICARD: Mister Worf, will you launch another probe. This time a Class
One with full sensor array. 
WORF: Launching, sir. 
(Off it goes, then - blink) 
RIKER: Happened even more quickly. 
WORF: Recommend we fire a photon torpedo, Captain. 
PICARD: Negative. 
WESLEY: Captain, based on where the probes disappeared I have been able
to plot the outer boundaries. I could move in closer. 
PICARD: Make it so, Mister Crusher. Thrusters only. Mister Data? 
DATA: Still no readings of any kind, sir. 
PICARD: Number One? 
RIKER: I'm going with Worf on this one. Let's be careful. 
PICARD: All right, that's enough, Ensign. Come to full stop and hold
these coordinates.
WESLEY: Aye, sir. 
(The blackness leaps forward at them) 
RIKER: What's happened? 
PICARD: Data? 
DATA: Whatever it is, sir, we seem to be inside it. 
PICARD: It enveloped us. It moved. All stations, report. 
DATA: No response, Captain. 
Captain's log, supplemental. While exploring a
strange void in space without any form of matter or energy, we have
apparently moved past its outer boundary and entered it. After a brief
disruption, our ship's communications have returned to normal. 
[Bridge]

RIKER: All stations have reported, Captain. There
appears to be no immediate threat to our ship or the crew. 
PICARD: Let's hold this position for a while, Number One. This is worth
studying. 
RIKER: Incredible. It's like looking into infinity, sir. Remember the
course in ancient history at Starfleet Academy? About the time men
still believed the Earth was flat? 
PICARD: And that the sun revolved around it. 
RIKER: And that if a ship sailed too far out into the ocean, it would
fall off the edge of the world? 
PICARD: Beyond this place there be dragons. It's even said that crews
threatened to hang their captain from the yard arm if he refused to
turn back. 
RIKER: I'm sure no one here has that in mind, sir. 
PICARD: How comforting, Number One. 
WESLEY: Captain, we have no communications outside of the void. 
RIKER: Complete your scans, Data. Let's not stay any longer than we
have to. 
(Pulaski enters) 
PICARD: Hello, Doctor. Have you been briefed on what's happened? 
PULASKI: I heard, but I don't understand it, Captain. 
PICARD: I wish I could say I did. Increase magnification by ten. By one
hundred. 
PULASKI: Isn't this impossible, sir? I'm not a Bridge officer, but.
Increase by one thousand, Mister Data. By ten thousand. It does know
how to do these things, doesn't it? 
PICARD: Commander Data knows precisely what he is doing. 
PULASKI: Forgive me, Mister Data. I'm not accustomed to working with
non-living devices that. Forgive me again. Your service record says
that you are alive. I must accept that. 
PICARD: Engineering! 
LAFORGE [OC]: Engineering. 
PICARD: Lieutenant, are all your systems functioning? 
LAFORGE: Yes, Captain. Wherever we are, it seems to have no effect on
Engineering. 
PICARD: Thank you, Lieutenant. Data? 
DATA: Difficult to make a judgment, sir, based on the absence of
information. 
PICARD: Speculate. 
DATA: This void has a total lack of dimension. Therefore, by any
accepted standard, it does not exist, yet being within it denies that
conclusion. 
RIKER: Might we have moved into another dimension? 
DATA: Could a lack of dimension be another dimension in itself? 
PULASKI: That's an interesting question. 
PICARD: For a later discussion. Number One, I think we should get on
with our mission. Starfleet can send a science vessel back to
investigate further. Move us back out of here. 
RIKER: Aye, sir. Wesley, reverse our direction, set a course for the
Cornelian star system. Impulse power. 
WESLEY: Aye, sir. Reversing direction. Course laid in. 
RIKER: Engage. 
(We see the Enterprise whizz off, but nothing changes on the
viewscreen) 
RIKER: Your engines have engaged, haven't they, Ensign? 
WESLEY: Aye, sir.

