RIKER WORF PICARD TROI WESLEY DATA
entire metal quite past thrusters report shared entered minutes

[Holodeck]

(A jungle, with ruins. Riker and Worf are unarmed
and moving very cautiously. Worf goes ahead to find his armoured
gauntlet) 
RIKER: Above, look out! 
(An alien with a metal mace attacks. Riker goes to help and knocks it
out with a metal tube. Meanwhile a second 'monster' with an axe is
giving Worf a run for his money. When it is finally defeated, Worf is
so fired up he comes after Riker too)
RIKER: The exercise is over! 
(Work raises the axe to strike Riker) 
RIKER: At ease, Lieutenant! 
(That stops him) 
RIKER: Exit Holodeck. You do this every day? 
WORF: No, Commander. Usually my calisthenics are more intense, but
those sessions are too personal to be shared. 
RIKER: I'll bet they are. 
WORF: Computer. Programme complete. Save. Coming Commander? 
RIKER: Right behind you.

Captain's log, Stardate 42193.6. We are on a long
reach toward the Morgana Quadrant, a section of the galaxy which has
yet to be visited by a manned Federation vessel. We are using the time
to further detail the charts of this region.

[Bridge]

DATA: There it is again. An area of blackness. 
RIKER: It appears, then disappears, then reappears. No predictable
pattern, no sequence. 
PICARD: On screen. 
RIKER: There it is. 
PICARD: I can't see anything. Magnify section two eight five. 
WESLEY: There it is, sir. It's like a hole in space. 
PICARD: We're acquainted with the wormhole phenomenon, but this? This
appears quite different. What do your sensors indicate? 
DATA: Nothing, sir. 
RIKER: Nothing? 
PICARD: Mister Data, you must mean it's empty of matter. There's always
some energy form at work. 
DATA: Sir, our sensors are showing that to be an absence of everything.
It is a void without matter or energy of any kind. 
RIKER: Yet this hole has a form, Data. It has height, width. 
DATA: Perhaps. Perhaps not, sir. 
PICARD: That is hardly a scientific observation, Commander. 
DATA: Captain, the most elementary and valuable statement in science,
the beginning of wisdom, is I do not know.
I do not know what that is, sir. 
WESLEY: Captain, if this were any ordinary kind of hole in space
wouldn't we be able to see what's behind it? 
PICARD: Counsellor? 
TROI: I know what you're asking, but I feel nothing from it. 
RIKER: Data, is there any record anywhere of any occurrence even
vaguely similar to this? 
DATA: Accessing. Negative, sir. There is no record of any Federation
vessel encountering anything remotely like this. 
PICARD: Indeed. I believe we have time to take a closer look, Number
One. 
RIKER: Concur. Ensign, slow down to half impulse power. Adjust
coordinates to intercept this, this whatever it is. 
PICARD: Scanning and recording as we go. 
WESLEY: Aye, sir. Adjusting course to intercept in twelve minutes, sir.

(Twelve minutes later, at the black whatever) 
PICARD: Let's launch a probe into it. 
RIKER: Worf, prepare a scanner probe. Let's see what's in there. 
PICARD: This is close enough, Ensign. Hold this position. 
WESLEY: Aye, sir. Holding this position. 
RIKER: You may fire the probe when ready, Mister Worf. 
(The probe is launched) 
DATA: All the probe's systems are functioning perfectly. 
WORF: It's gone. 
PICARD: Data, what happened? 
DATA: Unknown, sir. 
WORF: Recommend we go to a Yellow Alert, sir. 
PICARD: Why? Explain. 
WORF: Sorry, sir. It's 
PICARD: Mister Worf, this starship operates best when my officers share
with me what is their minds. 
WORF: My thoughts were of an old Klingon legend of a gigantic black
space creature which was said to devour entire vessels. 
RIKER: Devour vessels? 
WORF: Sorry, Commander. I agree these are thoughts hardly worthy of a
trained and practical Security Officer. 
PICARD: Mister Worf, will you launch another probe. This time a Class
One with full sensor array. 
WORF: Launching, sir. 
(Off it goes, then - blink) 
RIKER: Happened even more quickly. 
WORF: Recommend we fire a photon torpedo, Captain. 
PICARD: Negative. 
WESLEY: Captain, based on where the probes disappeared I have been able
to plot the outer boundaries. I could move in closer. 
PICARD: Make it so, Mister Crusher. Thrusters only. Mister Data? 
DATA: Still no readings of any kind, sir. 
PICARD: Number One? 
RIKER: I'm going with Worf on this one. Let's be careful. 
PICARD: All right, that's enough, Ensign. Come to full stop and hold
these coordinates.
WESLEY: Aye, sir. 
(The blackness leaps forward at them) 
RIKER: What's happened? 
PICARD: Data? 
DATA: Whatever it is, sir, we seem to be inside it. 
PICARD: It enveloped us. It moved. All stations, report. 
DATA: No response, Captain. 
Captain's log, supplemental. While exploring a
strange void in space without any form of matter or energy, we have
apparently moved past its outer boundary and entered it. After a brief
disruption, our ship's communications have returned to normal. 
