LESTRADE COMPUTER DATA LAFORGE LESTRADE [OC]
provided right pawn king did turn partington mister fact

[Outside holodeck]

(The friends are costumed for late Victorian
London) 
DATA: Computer, select at random a mystery by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle,
where I will play Sherlock Holmes and Lieutenant La Forge will be
Doctor John Watson. 
COMPUTER: Programme complete. You may enter.

[221B Baker Street]

(They enter Sherlock Holmes' study) 
DATA: Excellent. 
LAFORGE: Look at all of the detail. So you say everything here has some
significance? 
DATA: Holmes collected nothing, neither trinkets nor thoughts, which
were not specifically significant to him. 
LAFORGE: This? 
DATA: The emerald tie pin. Presented to Holmes by Queen Victoria after
he solved the theft of the Bruce-Partington Plans. (a book) A copy of
Whitaker's Almanac, which provided Holmes the key to the secret code in
The Valley of Fear. The snuff box of Wilhelm Gottsleig Siegesmann Van
der Romstein. 
LAFORGE: All right, Data. You solve the cases and get all the gifts,
what do I do? 
DATA: Primarily as Doctor Watson, you will keep a written record of
everything I say and do. For later publication. And the famous Holmes
violin. He purchased this in a pawn shop in Tottenham Court Road for
fifty five shillings, which he considered to be a very good investment.

(And with his back to us, he plays beautifully) 
LAFORGE: In the hands of some, the violin is a wondrous thing, equally
capable of stirring the soul to the heights of bliss as to the depths
of despair, but Data, that's incredible. How can you play it like that?

DATA: Merely throwing myself into the part, Watson. 
LAFORGE: But, in the hands of my friend, Mister Sherlock Holmes, the
violin ceases to be a musical instrument at all and becomes 
DATA: Watson, we are about to have guests. 
LAFORGE: How could you possibly? 
(A knock on the door) 
DATA: Be a good fellow and answer that. Let's not keep the Inspector
waiting. 
LAFORGE: Inspector who? 
DATA: Lestrade of course. 
LESTRADE [OC]: Holmes, are you there, man? 
(La Forge opens the door and two men enter) 
LESTRADE: Thank the Almighty you're available today, Holmes, I'm in a
deuce of a dilemma. 
DATA: Then may I say your perturbation becomes you, Inspector Lestrade,
whilst simultaneously affording me yet again the opportunity to serve
Queen and country. 
LAFORGE: Data, Holmes really talked like that? 
DATA: Absolutely. 
LESTRADE: We need your help, Holmes. You see, this gentleman here, the
emissary of a foreign government, has been the victim of a most
accidentally wicked crime. 
LAFORGE: (trying to turn on a table lamp) Damn. Haven't they invented
the electric light by now? 
LESTRADE: What, dear fellow? 
DATA: Watson. Pray continue, Inspector. 
LESTRADE: To put the matter simply, Holmes, this man was accosted by
gypsies intent on depriving him of his most valuable possessions. And
in the process of picking his pockets clean, they also happened to bag
a photograph this man was carrying. 
(Data gets up, rips the lining of the man's jacket to reveal - )
LESTRADE: Great Scott! The photograph! 
DATA: I believe you will find, Inspector, that this emissary here works
not for but against the King of Bohemia, and that photograph of the
king and his mistress is to be used as blackmail. Further, upon deeper
reflection, you will deduce, as did I, that 
LAFORGE: Computer, freeze programme. Exit! 
DATA: Geordi, where are you going? Geordi? 
LAFORGE: I'm done. 
(La Forge leaves) 
DATA: (hurrying after him) But, but, Geordi, I was just about to reveal
that the sir is in fact a
madam

