PULASKI LESTRADE DATA LAFORGE LESTRADE [OC]
king life ve presented challenge game victory time baker

[221B Baker Street]

(They enter Sherlock Holmes' study) 
DATA: Excellent. 
LAFORGE: Look at all of the detail. So you say everything here has some
significance? 
DATA: Holmes collected nothing, neither trinkets nor thoughts, which
were not specifically significant to him. 
LAFORGE: This? 
DATA: The emerald tie pin. Presented to Holmes by Queen Victoria after
he solved the theft of the Bruce-Partington Plans. (a book) A copy of
Whitaker's Almanac, which provided Holmes the key to the secret code in
The Valley of Fear. The snuff box of Wilhelm Gottsleig Siegesmann Van
der Romstein. 
LAFORGE: All right, Data. You solve the cases and get all the gifts,
what do I do? 
DATA: Primarily as Doctor Watson, you will keep a written record of
everything I say and do. For later publication. And the famous Holmes
violin. He purchased this in a pawn shop in Tottenham Court Road for
fifty five shillings, which he considered to be a very good investment.

(And with his back to us, he plays beautifully) 
LAFORGE: In the hands of some, the violin is a wondrous thing, equally
capable of stirring the soul to the heights of bliss as to the depths
of despair, but Data, that's incredible. How can you play it like that?

DATA: Merely throwing myself into the part, Watson. 
LAFORGE: But, in the hands of my friend, Mister Sherlock Holmes, the
violin ceases to be a musical instrument at all and becomes 
DATA: Watson, we are about to have guests. 
LAFORGE: How could you possibly? 
(A knock on the door) 
DATA: Be a good fellow and answer that. Let's not keep the Inspector
waiting. 
LAFORGE: Inspector who? 
DATA: Lestrade of course. 
LESTRADE [OC]: Holmes, are you there, man? 
(La Forge opens the door and two men enter) 
LESTRADE: Thank the Almighty you're available today, Holmes, I'm in a
deuce of a dilemma. 
DATA: Then may I say your perturbation becomes you, Inspector Lestrade,
whilst simultaneously affording me yet again the opportunity to serve
Queen and country. 
LAFORGE: Data, Holmes really talked like that? 
DATA: Absolutely. 
LESTRADE: We need your help, Holmes. You see, this gentleman here, the
emissary of a foreign government, has been the victim of a most
accidentally wicked crime. 
LAFORGE: (trying to turn on a table lamp) Damn. Haven't they invented
the electric light by now? 
LESTRADE: What, dear fellow? 
DATA: Watson. Pray continue, Inspector. 
LESTRADE: To put the matter simply, Holmes, this man was accosted by
gypsies intent on depriving him of his most valuable possessions. And
in the process of picking his pockets clean, they also happened to bag
a photograph this man was carrying. 
(Data gets up, rips the lining of the man's jacket to reveal - )
LESTRADE: Great Scott! The photograph! 
DATA: I believe you will find, Inspector, that this emissary here works
not for but against the King of Bohemia, and that photograph of the
king and his mistress is to be used as blackmail. Further, upon deeper
reflection, you will deduce, as did I, that 
LAFORGE: Computer, freeze programme. Exit! 
DATA: Geordi, where are you going? Geordi? 
LAFORGE: I'm done. 
(La Forge leaves) 
DATA: (hurrying after him) But, but, Geordi, I was just about to reveal
that the sir is in fact a
madam

[Ten Forward]

(still in costume) 
LAFORGE: Data, what was the point in going to the holodeck? 
DATA: To solve a Sherlock Holmes mystery. 
LAFORGE: Exactly, but, you've got them all memorised. The first time
someone opens their mouth, you've got it solved, so there's really no
mystery. If there's no mystery, there's no game. No game, no fun. I'm
not upset with you, Data, really. It's just that we go through all the
trouble to arrange the time to go down to the holodeck, to get the
proper wardrobe, to get into character, and then boom, before we even
get started you jump to the end. You see, I was looking forward to the
mystery. 
DATA: Then I should have extended the sequence of events. 
LAFORGE: Oh, I'm not getting through. The fun in the programme, Data,
was in the attempt to solve a mystery. 
DATA: Is that not exactly what we were doing. 
PULASKI: You are wasting your breath, Lieutenant. Saying that to Data
is asking a computer not to compute. 
DATA: Am I so different from you, Doctor? Are you able to cease
thinking on command? 
PULASKI: In medicine I'm often faced with puzzles that I do not know
the answer to. 
LAFORGE: She's right, Data. You always know the answer. 
PULASKI: To feel the thrill of victory there has to be the possibility
of failure. Where's the victory winning a battle you can't possibly
lose? 
DATA: Are you suggesting that there is some value in losing? 
PULASKI: Yes. Yes, that's the great teacher. We humans learn more often
from a failure or a mistake than we do from an easy success. But not
you. You learn by rote. To you all is memorisation and recitation. 
LAFORGE: I don't know about that. Deductive reasoning is one of Data's
strengths. 
PULASKI: Yes, and Holmes too. But Holmes understood the human soul. The
dark flecks that drive us, that turn the innocent into the evil. That
understanding is beyond Data. It comes from life experience which he
doesn't have combined with human intuition for which he cannot be
programmed. 
LAFORGE: Now you're just being unfair, Doctor. 
PULASKI: I don't think so, Lieutenant. Your artificial friend doesn't
have a prayer of solving a Holmes mystery that he hasn't read. 
DATA: I have read them all. 
PULASKI: You see? LAFORGE: Maybe the computer could create one in the
Holmes style. One where you wouldn't know the outcome. 
PULASKI: As I said, he wouldn't have a prayer. 
DATA: I accept your challenge, Doctor. 
LAFORGE: Good for you, Data. 
DATA: We will return to the holodeck, where I will dare it to defeat
me. And you, Madam, are invited to be a witness. 
PULASKI: I wouldn't miss it. 
DATA: Come, Watson.

