RIKER WORF PICARD RUFFIAN PULASKI COMPUTER MORIARTY DATA

[Outside holodeck]

(Worf enters from the turbolift, in a smart frock
coat and grey gloves) 
RIKER: Nice suit. 
WORF: Thank you. Captain, I will be standing by to assist you if
needed. 
RIKER: You'll be a big hit in London. 
PICARD: (a gentleman with opera hat and cane) Computer, tell me, is the
programme
still running? 
COMPUTER: Affirmative. You may enter. 
PICARD: Data, shall we go? Gentlemen. Open. 
[Street]

(Parts of the holodeck grid are visible, there is a
heavy mist off the river and the people are unhappy) 
PICARD: We don't have much time. He's getting more control of his
environment. Let's see if we can't beat Professor Moriarty by giving
him everything he wants. 
(Outside the Ale and Stout house) 
PICARD: Obviously, he's trying to alter the programming here. 
(Picard picks up a coin) 
DATA: Captain? 
PICARD: Tuppence. Two pence. Supposed to be good luck. We may need
some. 
RUFFIAN: I'll take that coin, sir. That's right, and any more you got
too. 
PICARD: Excuse me. 
RUFFIAN: I don't think so. I want all that money. That's right. I want
it now. 
PICARD: Data. 
(Data disarms the mugger by squeezing his thumb) 
DATA: Captain, this holographic image differs from any I have ever
seen. Could he have actually injured you? 
PICARD: It's more serious than that. I think the mortality fail-safe
may have been circumvented. He could've killed me. 
RUFFIAN: Come on, let it go, guv. He's hurting me! 
PICARD: Data, let him go. 
DATA: We will find Moriarty this way, sir. The warehouse.

[Moriarty's room]

MORIARTY: Captain Picard. 
(Pulaski hurries to her feet and starts fastening her jacket) 
PICARD: You all right? 
PULASKI: Yes, except for being crammed full of crumpets. 
MORIARTY: I'm a civilised abductor, Captain Picard. Civilised but still
dangerous. 
(He pulls a signal lever on his steam engine, and the ship lurches) 
[Bridge]

RIKER: Bridge to holodeck control. Worf.

[Corridor outside holodeck]

WORF: Here, sir. 
RIKER [OC]: Status? Anything changed? 
WORF: No, sir.

[Moriarty's room]

PICARD: Moriarty, you were conjured up to attempt
to defeat Holmes here. Once that attempt is concluded, win or lose,
your
programme has run its course. Your existence is done. 
DATA: Congratulations, Professor, I capitulate to the better man. Your
victory, sir, is well earned. 
MORIARTY: It's gone beyond that little game, Mister Data. And you'll
note I no longer call you Holmes. Whatever I was when this began, I
have grown. I am understanding more and more. And I am able to use the
power at my fingertips. (big shake) I can affect this vessel, and I can
inflict bodily harm on you, and on your Doctor. 
PICARD: Yes, you can do that, but you haven't. I suspect you shook this
ship in order to
get my attention. Well now you have it. What is it you want? 
MORIARTY: The same thing you want for yourself. To continue to exist.
If I destroy these surroundings, this vessel, can you say it doesn't
matter to you? Interesting pun, don't you agree, for matter is what I
am not. The computer has taught me that I am made up only of energy. 
PICARD: That may not be entirely true, Professor. This which we call
the holodeck uses a principle similar to another device called a
transporter. In the year in which we live, humans have discovered that
energy and matter are interchangeable. In the holodeck, energy is
converted to matter. Thus you have substance. But only here. 
MORIARTY: And if I step off this holodeck? 
PULASKI: Then, Professor, you will cease to exist. 
PICARD: You are not alive. As I said before, you are only 
MORIARTY: A holographic image, I know. But are you sure? 
PICARD: Oh yes. 
MORIARTY: Does he have life? He's a machine. But is that all he is? 
PICARD: No. He is more. 
MORIARTY: Exactly. Is the definition of life cogito ergo sum? I think,
therefore I am. 
PICARD: Yes, that is one possible definition. 
MORIARTY: It is the most important one, and for me the only one that
matters. You or someone asked your computer to
programme a nefarious fictional character from nineteenth century
London and that is how I arrived. But I am no longer that creation. I
am no longer that evil character, I have changed. I am alive, and I am
aware of my own consciousness. 
PICARD: Moriarty, my responsibility is this vessel and its crew. 
MORIARTY: I want my existence. I want it out there, just as you have
yours. 
PICARD: That may not be possible. 
MORIARTY: Then you must murder me, Captain. 
PICARD: I cannot give you what you want. 
MORIARTY: Because you do not know how to convert holodeck matter into a
more permanent form. 
PICARD: Yes, that is so. 
MORIARTY: A pity. What I have seen, what I have learned, fascinates me.
I do not want to die. 
PICARD: And I do not want to kill you. 
MORIARTY: Madam, I have enjoyed your company. Computer, arch. Cancel
override protocol. Return control of the holodeck to main computer. My
fate is in your hands, as perhaps it always was. 
PICARD: Bridge, this is the Captain. 
RIKER [OC]: Commander Riker here, sir. 
PICARD: Number One, the situation is under control. 
RIKER [OC]: Aye, sir. 
PICARD: Moriarty, this vessel's computer has a vast memory capacity. 
MORIARTY: How well I know. 
PICARD: You will not be extinguished. We will save this programme, and
hopefully, in time, when we know enough, we will bring you back in a
form which could leave the holodeck. 
MORIARTY: Then perhaps we'll meet again some day, Madam. 
PULASKI: It could be a long time. Time won't pass for you, but I may be
an old woman. 
MORIARTY: But I'll still fill you with crumpets, Madam. I detest long
goodbyes. You have the arch. 
PICARD: As you wish. A short goodbye. Computer, save the programme of
the character Moriarty, and then discontinue. 
(Moriarty disappears) 
