BOTH LAFORGE PULASKI LESTRADE COMPUTER MORIARTY DATA WHORE

[Street]

(No hawkers, a barking dog, drunken sailors, and
the man puts his top hat back on) 
PULASKI: Interesting. The same London but slightly different. 
WHORE: Is something wrong, Professor? 
MORIARTY: I, I feel like a new man. That dark fellow there used the
word arch, and then. I wonder? Arch. 
(The computer arch appears for him) 
MORIARTY: What have we here? 
COMPUTER: Computer standing by. 
MORIARTY: What are you? 
COMPUTER: If you refer to the arch you ordered, it provides computer
control. Do you wish to input any commands? 
MORIARTY: Not at this time. 
(The arch disappears) 
WHORE: It's dark magic, Moriarty. 
MORIARTY: The best kind, I'm sure. But I need information. 
(Further along the street) 
LAFORGE: Data, I mean, Holmes old boy, what are we looking for? 
DATA: For whatever finds us, my dear Watson. 
(A scream. They run back to discover a shoe on the pavement.) 
DATA: She has been abducted. 
LAFORGE: Who has? 
DATA: The good Doctor. 
LAFORGE: I think she's hiding. She's going to lead you on a wild goose
chase and then recount the story to everyone between here and Alpha
Centauri. 
DATA: Watson, the doctor has been carried off by two men. One is tall.
The other is shorter, left handed, and is employed in a laboratory. 
LAFORGE: And how do you know that? 
DATA: One set of footfalls are widely spaced. The other is evenly
spaced, closer together. Further, on the ground you can see the
swirling scrapes made by his left shoe as he twists behind, presumably
to see if he is being followed. Left footed means left handed. The dark
colouring of the scrapes are the leavings of natural rubber, a type of
non-conductive soles used by researchers experimenting with
electricity. Finally, there can be no argument, the game is afoot!
Come, Watson! 
[Alleyway]

DATA: Hear that? What do those footfalls tell you,
Watson? 
LAFORGE: That we're on the right track. 
DATA: More particularly, that our opposition does indeed consist of two
men, and that one of them is carrying the bound and gagged Doctor
Pulaski. 
LAFORGE: Now, you know all this because you read it in a Holmes story,
right? 
DATA: Not at all. Because we do not hear the doctor's footfalls, we
must assume that she is being carried. And since we do not hear her
cries for help, we know that she is gagged. Further both sets of
footfalls are heavy and masculine. One man seems to shuffle and stumble
in an irregular pattern. Since the ground is level, we must conclude
that Doctor Pulaski is struggling against one of her captor,
sporadically knocking him off stride. Deduction, pure and simple. well,
not that simple. 
BOTH: Footfalls. 
(And off they run again) 
DATA: There they are again, Watson. I dare say we have caught up rather
nicely with our quarry. 
(But it is a dead end) 
DATA: There should be a doorway. 
LAFORGE: Yeah. Come on. 
(They retrace their steps and meet the Inspector) 
LESTRADE: Holmes! Thank God you're here. 
