PULASKI DATA COMPUTER PIEMAN LAFORGE

[Outside Holodeck]

DATA: There. I have instructed the computer to give
us a Sherlock Holmes-type problem, but not one written specifically by
Sir Arthur Conan Doyle. 
LAFORGE: So this will be something new, something created by the
computer? 
DATA: Exactly. Will that be sufficient, Doctor? 
PULASKI: We'll see. 
COMPUTER: Programme complete. You may enter.

[Street]

(Near the river, with a ship's fog horn going and
hawkers crying their wares. The sign says Tovey Street) 
PIE MAN: Pies, pies, Some are meat, some are sweet. 
PULASKI: Very impressive. 
LAFORGE: Your first visit to a holodeck, Doctor? 
PULASKI: Well, with this level of sophistication. How does this work?
The real London was hundreds of square kilometres in size. 
DATA: This is no larger than the holodeck, of course, so the computer
adjusts by placing images of more distant perspectives on the holodeck
walls 
LAFORGE: But with the image so perfect you'd have to touch the wall to
know it was there. And the computer fools you in other ways. I say,
Holmes, where shall we head? The theatre? Rule's? A concert perhaps? 
(A young boy dashes between them) 
PIE MAN: Stop him! Stop him! He stole my goods! 
DATA: No. It is a ruse. This way. 
(Outside the headquarters of the Red-Headed League) 
LAFORGE: What's over here, Data? 
PULASKI: What are you doing, Data? Tell us 
DATA: The running youth was a ploy. The real crime is here. And the
intended victim is that man. Mister Jabez Wilson, employee of the Red
Headed League, dupe of a gang of criminals. 
DATA: I saw the plaque 'The Home of the Red Headed League' and this
rope dangling from the bell, which enabled me to deduce that Mister
Jabez Wilson was headed here to meet a most distasteful and untimely
demise. From this. 
(He pulls the rope to ring the bell and a snake falls to the ground) 
PULASKI: Fraud. You didn't deduce anything. All you did was recognise
elements from two different Holmes stories. Fraud. 
DATA: Reasoning. From the general to the specific. Is that not the very
definition of deduction? Is that not the way Sherlock Holmes worked? 
PULASKI: Variations on a theme. Now, now do you see my point? All that
he knows is stored in his memory banks. Inspiration, original thought,
all the true strength of Holmes is not possible for our friend. I'll
give you credit for your vast knowledge, but your circuits would just
short out if confronted by a truly original mystery. It's elementary,
dear Data. 
LAFORGE: Now wait a minute, Doctor. We'll see whose circuits short out.

(They return to where they entered, under the watchful gaze of a man) 
LAFORGE: Computer, arch. 
PULASKI: Are you sure you want to put yourself through this,
Lieutenant? Better wilted laurels than no laurels at all. 
LAFORGE: Computer, override previous programme. Okay. A programme that
definitely challenges Data. 
PULASKI: Now it has to deal with events that he has no previous
knowledge of. 
LAFORGE: Computer, in the Holmesian style, create a mystery to confound
Data with an opponent who has the ability to defeat him. 
COMPUTER: Define parameters of programme. 
PULASKI: What does that mean? 
LAFORGE: Computer wants to know how far to take the game. 
PULASKI: You mean it's giving you a chance to limit your risk. 
LAFORGE: No, the parameters will be whatever is necessary in order to
accomplish the directive. Create an adversary capable of defeating
Data.

