PULASKI COMPUTER DATA LAFORGE
ve game victory human learn got come events complete

[Ten Forward]

(still in costume) 
LAFORGE: Data, what was the point in going to the holodeck? 
DATA: To solve a Sherlock Holmes mystery. 
LAFORGE: Exactly, but, you've got them all memorised. The first time
someone opens their mouth, you've got it solved, so there's really no
mystery. If there's no mystery, there's no game. No game, no fun. I'm
not upset with you, Data, really. It's just that we go through all the
trouble to arrange the time to go down to the holodeck, to get the
proper wardrobe, to get into character, and then boom, before we even
get started you jump to the end. You see, I was looking forward to the
mystery. 
DATA: Then I should have extended the sequence of events. 
LAFORGE: Oh, I'm not getting through. The fun in the programme, Data,
was in the attempt to solve a mystery. 
DATA: Is that not exactly what we were doing. 
PULASKI: You are wasting your breath, Lieutenant. Saying that to Data
is asking a computer not to compute. 
DATA: Am I so different from you, Doctor? Are you able to cease
thinking on command? 
PULASKI: In medicine I'm often faced with puzzles that I do not know
the answer to. 
LAFORGE: She's right, Data. You always know the answer. 
PULASKI: To feel the thrill of victory there has to be the possibility
of failure. Where's the victory winning a battle you can't possibly
lose? 
DATA: Are you suggesting that there is some value in losing? 
PULASKI: Yes. Yes, that's the great teacher. We humans learn more often
from a failure or a mistake than we do from an easy success. But not
you. You learn by rote. To you all is memorisation and recitation. 
LAFORGE: I don't know about that. Deductive reasoning is one of Data's
strengths. 
PULASKI: Yes, and Holmes too. But Holmes understood the human soul. The
dark flecks that drive us, that turn the innocent into the evil. That
understanding is beyond Data. It comes from life experience which he
doesn't have combined with human intuition for which he cannot be
programmed. 
LAFORGE: Now you're just being unfair, Doctor. 
PULASKI: I don't think so, Lieutenant. Your artificial friend doesn't
have a prayer of solving a Holmes mystery that he hasn't read. 
DATA: I have read them all. 
PULASKI: You see? LAFORGE: Maybe the computer could create one in the
Holmes style. One where you wouldn't know the outcome. 
PULASKI: As I said, he wouldn't have a prayer. 
DATA: I accept your challenge, Doctor. 
LAFORGE: Good for you, Data. 
DATA: We will return to the holodeck, where I will dare it to defeat
me. And you, Madam, are invited to be a witness. 
PULASKI: I wouldn't miss it. 
DATA: Come, Watson.

[Outside Holodeck]

DATA: There. I have instructed the computer to give
us a Sherlock Holmes-type problem, but not one written specifically by
Sir Arthur Conan Doyle. 
LAFORGE: So this will be something new, something created by the
computer? 
DATA: Exactly. Will that be sufficient, Doctor? 
PULASKI: We'll see. 
COMPUTER: Programme complete. You may enter.

