BOTH LESTRADE DATA LAFORGE

[Alleyway]

DATA: Hear that? What do those footfalls tell you,
Watson? 
LAFORGE: That we're on the right track. 
DATA: More particularly, that our opposition does indeed consist of two
men, and that one of them is carrying the bound and gagged Doctor
Pulaski. 
LAFORGE: Now, you know all this because you read it in a Holmes story,
right? 
DATA: Not at all. Because we do not hear the doctor's footfalls, we
must assume that she is being carried. And since we do not hear her
cries for help, we know that she is gagged. Further both sets of
footfalls are heavy and masculine. One man seems to shuffle and stumble
in an irregular pattern. Since the ground is level, we must conclude
that Doctor Pulaski is struggling against one of her captor,
sporadically knocking him off stride. Deduction, pure and simple. well,
not that simple. 
BOTH: Footfalls. 
(And off they run again) 
DATA: There they are again, Watson. I dare say we have caught up rather
nicely with our quarry. 
(But it is a dead end) 
DATA: There should be a doorway. 
LAFORGE: Yeah. Come on. 
(They retrace their steps and meet the Inspector) 
LESTRADE: Holmes! Thank God you're here. 
[Street]

(A crowd is gathered around a body) 
LESTRADE: Make way, please, make way. Make way for Sherlock Holmes.
It's murder, Holmes, murder most foul. 
LAFORGE: Well, Holmes, what do you say, man? 
DATA: There is nothing here of relevance. I do not see how this
connects with the disappearance of the Doctor. 
LESTRADE: Doctor? Doctor Watson is right here, Holmes. 
DATA: Doctor Kate Pulaski. But do not concern yourself, Inspector. You
have enough on your mind. 
LESTRADE: She was with you? 
LAFORGE: Inspector, perhaps I can be of assistance. As I take note of
this dead man, I deduce that he was strangled.
You see, the finger marks on his throat indicate the cause of death,
and, as there are signs of struggle, it's quite obvious that his
murderer was a stranger who attacked him from behind. 
LESTRADE: Is that correct, Holmes? 
DATA: No. Look at his shoes. He's more a convict, released today from
Dartmoor prison. (Pentonville more like, my dear Holmes)
He spent the day in a tavern consuming large quantities of gin with his
killer, who followed him to this spot and waited over there until the
victim slipped into a drunken stupor. Then, out of fear, motivated only
by self-protection, strangled him. There is your killer, Inspector. 
(Data points at an old woman) 
LESTRADE: Seize her. 
DATA: And when you check, I believe you will find that this poor soul
is the victim's common-law wife, who has been dreading the release of
this a vile and abusive man. 
LAFORGE: Holmes, the poor woman hardly has the strength to strangle a
man this size. 
DATA: Not with her hands, no. But with this. (a beaded shawl) When used
as a garrote, these beads will leave marks quite similar to
fingerprints. And, my dear Watson, you will note from the victim's
throat, the marks are too evenly spaced to be have been made by human
hands. 
LESTRADE: Astounding, Holmes. 
DATA: Not really, Inspector. And now, for strictly personal reasons, I
must leave. Come, Watson. This murder does not connect with our case. 
LESTRADE: Come along. Hurry it up. Come on. 
(Data and Geordi leave the crime scene) 
LAFORGE: Data, wait. If this murder isn't connected to the
disappearance of Doctor Pulaski, then the computer is running an
independent
programme. 
DATA: Yes. 
LAFORGE: Why? 
DATA: I do not know, and that is what puzzles me. 
LAFORGE: Then you don't know what's going to happen next? 
DATA: No. 
LAFORGE: That's what I want to hear. Where to now? 
DATA: We will find Doctor Pulaski in here. 
LAFORGE: How do you know that? 
DATA: It is the only obvious choice. 
(And where he saw Moriarty go in) 
LAFORGE: Why is the obvious choice all of a sudden the right one? I
mean, isn't this a game of misdirection? 
DATA: Not any more. He wants us to find him. 
LAFORGE: Who does? 
DATA: The master criminal. The man Holmes could only defeat at the cost
of his own life at Reichenbach Falls. Our adversary, my dear Watson, is
none other than Professor Moriarty himself. 
LAFORGE: Now this is getting interesting. 
