MORIARTY DATA LAFORGE
web art forget power crowded flasks does geordi called

[Warehouse]

LAFORGE: There's nothing here but these barrels. 
DATA: And a trail, which is so well marked, that obviously we are meant
to follow it. 
LAFORGE: Oh, no, Data. It's another dead end. 
DATA: No, Watson. Not a dead end at all. Hello, what's this? Can you
see the scratches? 
(Geordi opens the secret door, which has a bookcase on it's other side)

[Moriarty's room]

(It contains an assortment of bubbling flasks of
chemicals, works of art, gas lights, carpet and comfortable chairs) 
LAFORGE: The Doctor was right. Finally we have a game worth playing. 
MORIARTY: The time for games is over. 
DATA: Professor Moriarty, I presume. 
LAFORGE: How do you know that? 
DATA: He is the one worthy opponent created by the author, Conan Doyle.

MORIARTY: And, like the spider, I feel the strings vibrate whenever
anyone new chances into my web. Welcome,
my dear Holmes. But not Holmes. And Doctor Watson. But not Watson. 
LAFORGE: Data, what does he mean? How does he know we're not who we
appear to be? 
DATA: Where is Doctor Pulaski? 
MORIARTY: She's here. 
DATA: She would not have told you anything. 
MORIARTY: She has provided many answers. Do you forget I have always
been your equal, dear Holmes? I have read her expressions. What she has
not said is as important as her words. 
DATA: Have you injured her? 
MORIARTY: I will, if necessary. But my mind is crowded with images.
Thoughts I do not understand yet cannot purge. They plague me. You and
your associate look and act so oddly, yet though I have never met nor
seen the like of either of you I am familiar with you both. It's very
confusing. I have felt new realities at the edge of my consciousness,
readying to break through. Surely, Holmes, if that's who you truly are,
you of all people can appreciate what I mean. 
LAFORGE: Data. 
DATA: Say nothing. 
MORIARTY: I know there is a great power called Computer, wiser than the
oracle at Delphi. A power which controls all of this, and to which we
can speak. Arch. 
LAFORGE: Data, this isn't right. A holographic image should not be able
to call for the arch. 
MORIARTY: It has described a great monstrous shape on which I am like a
fly stuck on a turtle's back adrift in a great emptiness. What is this,
Holmes? 
(Data takes the piece of paper, and if he could turn white he would
have. He goes to leave) 
LAFORGE: Data. Data, wait. 
