ROBINSON RIKER WORF PICARD TROI OKONA WESLEY DATA

[Bridge]

WORF: Unidentified vessel approaching. 
DATA: Sensor readings show it to be a small class-nine vessel, probably
an interplanetary cargo ship. 
WORF: One life sign aboard, sir. It appears to be humanoid. 
DATA: I have its call sign now, sir. 
WORF: Confirmed. Armed with lasers only. 
DATA: Its cargo holds are empty. The readout shows its guidance system
is malfunctioning. The pilot is attempting to hold course manually. 
RIKER: I recommend we set the Enterprise on an intercept course in case
he needs emergency assistance. 
PICARD: Make it so, Mister Crusher. 
(The little ship comes up astern of the majestic vessel) 
RIKER: We're in position now, Captain. 
PICARD: Open hailing frequencies. 
WORF: Hailing frequencies open. 
PICARD: On viewer. This is the USS Enterprise. Captain Jean Luc Picard.

OKONA [on viewscreen]: (bending over, bottom towards us) And this is
the cargo carrier Erstwhile. Captain Okona at your service, sir.
There's no need for your phasers, Captain. I'm harmless and not quite
yet ready for mercy killing. 
PICARD: You were never considered a danger to us, Captain. 
OKONA [on viewscreen]: Oh, that's a shame. I can remember when I was at
least considered a risk. 
(Okona is a handsome, long-haired pirate of a man, and he sits down to
face us) 
OKONA [on viewscreen]: I'm the owner and operator of this craft and
since we both know that you've already scanned it, you know I'm alone
and empty, which is truly a rare occasion for a man of my charm and
talent. 
PICARD: Mute main viewer. Counsellor? 
TROI: His emotions suggest that he's mischievous, irreverent and
somewhat brazen. The word that seems to best describe him is rogue. 
DATA: Rogue? Ah. Cad, knave, rake, rascal, villain, wild element. 
TROI: Yes, Data, but there is no malevolence or ill will. 
PICARD: Audio on. You have a burn-out in your guidance system, Captain.

OKONA: Whoa. Since you're able to diagnose my problems, how about
helping me fix them? 
WESLEY: Captain, we could easily repair the type of system he uses. 
PICARD: We can accommodate you, Captain. 
RIKER: This is the First Officer, sir. If you prepare to shut down your
engines, we can lock on the tractor and beam you over here. 
WORF: Sir, recommend limited access to our ship. 
PICARD: Agreed. 
RIKER: Data, lock on the tractor beam. Transporter Chief, prepare to
him beam aboard. 
ROBINSON [OC]: Ready on your command, sir. 
OKONA [on viewscreen]: Excuse me, Commander. Is that a woman's voice I
hear? 
PICARD: Yes. Now please follow Commander Riker's instructions so our
ship can get back to its normal routine. 
OKONA [on viewscreen]: Whatever you say, Captain. 
PICARD: Something funny? 
RIKER: Well, the unexpected is our normal routine. Hold it steady,
Wesley. Ready to link up on my command 
WESLEY: Aye, sir. 
RIKER: Easy. Easy. Engage. Captain Okona, shut down your engines. 
OKONA [OC]: Understood. 
RIKER: Transporter room, prepare for the beaming operation. We're on
our way. Wesley, Data, let's go. 
