YANAR PICARD BENZAN DEBIN OKONA GUINAN COMIC DATA KUSHELL

[Charnock's Comedy Cabaret] 
DATA: Comic, continue. 
COMIC: More freebies, huh? No cover, no minimum, just Comic, continue?
Tell me, Data, what happened? 
DATA: I told a joke. 
COMIC: And? 
DATA: No one laughed. 
COMIC: No one? Nobody in the whole room? 
GUINAN: I was the whole room. 
DATA: She said I spoiled the joke. 
GUINAN: Actually, killed would have been a better word. 
COMIC: You know, Data, I think I know what your problem is. You should
always try out new material on an audience. 
GUINAN: You know, he could be right. Perhaps an audience is what you
need. 
DATA: Computer. Programme an audience appropriate to this venue. 
(And the room is full of people at the tables) 
[Conference room]

OKONA: Yanar. You're angry at the embarrassment of
all this, and maybe the timing and the approach is not the most
romantic, but I know you love Benzan and I don't want to see you throw
away that feeling just because your parents have been quarrelling for
years and don't know how to behave properly. I've carried your messages
back and forth for almost six months. I've smuggled each of you into
the other's homeland. You feel for him the same way he feels for you. 
(Yanar walks over to Benzan) 
YANAR: I do love you. It is your child. Our child. 
BENZAN: Marry me. 
YANAR: Yes. 
(Okona throws the Jewel to Benzan, who catches it and gives it to
Yanar) 
BENZAN: We'll find a new planet to live on. 
KUSHELL: You'll live on Straleb. 
DEBIN: No, no, no, no no. You'll live on Atlec. 
KUSHELL: I will not have this man raising my grandson. 
PICARD: The rest of this is an issue, gentlemen, to be settled between
yourselves. Now if you will excuse us, we have business. 
YANAR: Thank you, Captain. 
DEBIN: Your grandson? 
KUSHELL: My grandson. 
[Charnock's Comedy Cabaret]

(The spot light comes on, the drum rolls and the
Comic bounces out onto the stage) 
COMIC: Thank you. Thank you. Thanks for coming, folks. We got a great
show for you tonight. I'm so excited this evening. Tonight I have for
you the funny man of the stars, the android of antics, that Lieutenant
Commander of mirth. Please give him a nice welcome, ladies and
gentlemen, none other than. He's just the best. Data! 
(Dressed in a tuxedo, and carrying Groucho's cigar, Data comes on to
rapturous applause) 
DATA: Good evening ladies and germs. (laughter - mimes a golf swing with
his cigar - laughter) I come from a town so small, we had a fraction
for a zip code. (laughter) 
GUINAN: You made a living doing this? 
COMIC: Yes, I did. 
DATA: It was so small in fact we didn't have a godfather of crime, we
had a nephew. (laughter) 
(The Comic gives Data the thumbs up. He copies him and gets laughter) I
was so ugly as a child they hung a pork chop around my neck (laughter)
so the dog would play with me. (the penny drops) And then there was the
human cannonball who was hired and fired in the same night. Audience
programme off. Discontinue Comic. 
(Guinan walks out onto the stage) 
DATA: It was a holodeck audience. They were programmed to laugh at
everything. Perhaps I should reprogram the audience to display a more
accurate response. 
GUINAN: Data, let me give you one. Being able to make people laugh, or
being able to laugh, is not the end all and be all of being human. 
DATA: No, but there is nothing more uniquely human. 
