PICARD DEBIN WORF OKONA

[Crew quarters]

(Worf barges into a private room where Okona is in
the middle of kissing another woman) 
WORF: You will come with me to the main Bridge. 
OKONA: I'm sure it can wait a few minutes. 
WORF: Now! 
(Okona invades his personal space) 
WORF: I'd like that. But I have my orders. 
OKONA: Some other time. (to the woman) Remember what it took to drag me
from your arms. 
[Turbolift]

OKONA: Am I going to meet Captain Picard? 
WORF: Definitely. 
OKONA: Did I say something funny?

[Bridge]

WORF: Captain Picard, this is Thadium Okona. 
PICARD: Mister Okona, you were welcomed aboard without any undue
investigation. In turn it was assumed that you did not come under false
pretenses. It now seems that you may have done. 
OKONA: Captain, if you mean my socialising with the members of the
crew? 
PICARD: Mister Okona, you are free to socialise with the members of my
crew. I'm talking about a man named Debin. 
OKONA: He's from Atlec. I've had dealings with some of his family. 
PICARD: Then perhaps you can explain why his craft is threatening to
attack us unless I give him custody of you. 
OKONA: I can't. 
PICARD: Then tell me why Kushell of the planet Straleb is demanding the
same thing? 
OKONA: He's here also? 
PICARD: And quite adamant. Mister Okona, what crimes are you accused
of? 
OKONA: I am not a criminal. 
PICARD: Why do these men want you? 
OKONA: I can't say. 
PICARD: They're threatening to attack the Enterprise. 
OKONA: That would be crazy. They wouldn't stand a chance. 
PICARD: Right. Then you can offer no reason why they are set on this
provocative course? 
OKONA: I can't think of one right now. 
PICARD: On viewer. 
WORF: Which ship? 
PICARD: What? The first on. Captain Debin. Captain, let me ask you
again. What are Okona's crimes? 
DEBIN [on viewscreen]: That is not your concern. 
PICARD: It is if you wish me to release him to you. 
DEBIN [on viewscreen]: All right, you want to know what he did? You
want to know why I have chased him across this system? All right. Here,
This is his crime. 
(He goes off screen and returns leading a very pregnant young woman) 
DEBIN [on viewscreen]: He dishonoured my daughter. He took advantage of
her, then he ran off and left her carrying his bastard child. He'll
return, and he'll do the right thing or I'll hunt him to the ends of
the galaxy. 
Captain's log, supplemental. Some of the mystery
surrounding this ancient morality play we've been dragged into has been
revealed. One of Captain Okona's pursuers is an outraged father with a
heartfelt, if arcane, sense of righteousness. 
