TROI WORF PICARD BENZAN DEBIN OKONA KUSHELL

[Bridge]

WORF: Captain Picard, this is Thadium Okona. 
PICARD: Mister Okona, you were welcomed aboard without any undue
investigation. In turn it was assumed that you did not come under false
pretenses. It now seems that you may have done. 
OKONA: Captain, if you mean my socialising with the members of the
crew? 
PICARD: Mister Okona, you are free to socialise with the members of my
crew. I'm talking about a man named Debin. 
OKONA: He's from Atlec. I've had dealings with some of his family. 
PICARD: Then perhaps you can explain why his craft is threatening to
attack us unless I give him custody of you. 
OKONA: I can't. 
PICARD: Then tell me why Kushell of the planet Straleb is demanding the
same thing? 
OKONA: He's here also? 
PICARD: And quite adamant. Mister Okona, what crimes are you accused
of? 
OKONA: I am not a criminal. 
PICARD: Why do these men want you? 
OKONA: I can't say. 
PICARD: They're threatening to attack the Enterprise. 
OKONA: That would be crazy. They wouldn't stand a chance. 
PICARD: Right. Then you can offer no reason why they are set on this
provocative course? 
OKONA: I can't think of one right now. 
PICARD: On viewer. 
WORF: Which ship? 
PICARD: What? The first on. Captain Debin. Captain, let me ask you
again. What are Okona's crimes? 
DEBIN [on viewscreen]: That is not your concern. 
PICARD: It is if you wish me to release him to you. 
DEBIN [on viewscreen]: All right, you want to know what he did? You
want to know why I have chased him across this system? All right. Here,
This is his crime. 
(He goes off screen and returns leading a very pregnant young woman) 
DEBIN [on viewscreen]: He dishonoured my daughter. He took advantage of
her, then he ran off and left her carrying his bastard child. He'll
return, and he'll do the right thing or I'll hunt him to the ends of
the galaxy. 
Captain's log, supplemental. Some of the mystery
surrounding this ancient morality play we've been dragged into has been
revealed. One of Captain Okona's pursuers is an outraged father with a
heartfelt, if arcane, sense of righteousness. 
[Bridge]

PICARD: Your advice, Counsellor. 
TROI: We are dealing with ancient codes involving procreation. While
they may be meaningless to us, to Debin they represent his honour. He
will fight, risking himself, his crew, his daughter and her unborn
child. 
OKONA: You know, Captain, your Counsellor's right. He will fight. 
WORF: The captain of the other ship is demanding to be heard. 
PICARD: I don't suppose you can give me any indication why this man
wants you? 
(Okona sighs and shakes his head) 
PICARD: Let's put all this together. Lieutenant Worf, multiple image,
full conference mode. Let them all see each other. 
WORF: Yes, sir. 
KUSHELL [on viewscreen]: Here you are, Debin, trying to save this
criminal. 
DEBIN [on viewscreen]: My purpose is not your concern. 
KUSHELL [on viewscreen]: It is if it involves Okona. 
PICARD: Gentlemen, please, let's try and resolve this matter. Captain
Kushell, what crime has Okona allegedly committed against you? 
KUSHELL [on viewscreen]: He is a thief. He stole the Jewel of Thesia. A
national heritage. 
DEBIN [on viewscreen]: A thing. An item. My case involves the
victimisation of my daughter, and my honour. I'll have Okona now. 
KUSHELL [on viewscreen]: He is mine. 
OKONA: One at a time. Who accuses me of stealing? 
KUSHELL [on viewscreen]: I do. My son Benzan and I. 
BENZAN [on viewscreen]: Father, please. 
KUSHELL [on viewscreen]: He used you to become my friend. 
DEBIN [on viewscreen]: He used my daughter. 
KUSHELL [on viewscreen]: He used my son to plunder a national treasure.

WORF: Mute. 
PICARD: Terminate communications. Come with me.

[Ready room]

OKONA: Captain, you can't be afraid of those two or
what they can do to your ship. 
PICARD: No, they could fire until their lasers ran dry and they
wouldn't hurt the Enterprise. My predicament is what to do with you.
OKONA: I'm sorry. I'm sorry my ship broke down. I'm sorry you stopped
to help. I'm sorry you're involved. But you're right. Whatever happens,
however it goes, someone gets hurt. Hand me over to Kushell, and Debin
goes to war. 
PICARD: And if I hand you over to Debin, then it's the same thing. 
OKONA: I wish I could. I wish I could make it easier. 
PICARD: I'm sure you do. 
OKONA: I'm not going to apologise for the way I am or how I live my
life, but just for the record, I did not steal the Jewel of Thesia. I
am not a criminal, Captain. And as to the other business, that's
between me and Yanar, no one else. 
PICARD: In truth, I simply do not have authority in this matter. I'm
not your judge, nor is it my duty to arbitrate. But you are in my
custody, and that creates the dilemma. 
OKONA: How about this? Do what you said. Fix my guidance system and let
me leave. 
PICARD: According to Starfleet regulations, that would be my only
course of action. But their ships are faster than yours. I'm not doing
you a favour. 
OKONA: Captain, with all due respect, that's not your concern. Besides,
I can take care of myself. 
