TROI WORF PICARD SELAR DATA KAREEN

[Ten forward]

DATA: Hello, Kareen. Don't you think it's time we
stopped pretending? You know who I am. 
KAREEN: You're Data. 
DATA: You do know who I am. 
KAREEN: Ira? 
DATA: It is me. I am here. I am alive. 
KAREEN: How? 
(Worf enters, and Data notices him) 
DATA: I deactivated Data and transferred my mind into his frame. I
never imagined how much of my self I would retain. My feelings, my
dreams. 
KAREEN: They won't let you get away with it. They'll try to stop you. 
DATA: How can they? It is my body now. It is out of their hands. 
[Ready room]

PICARD: Doctor, tell me. How much time did Data and
Graves spend together? 
SELAR: They were together practically the entire time we were on the
planet. 
PICARD: Always alone? 
TROI: Yes. Always. 
PICARD: Doctor, what was your impression of Graves? 
SELAR: He seemed brilliant, egocentric, arrogant, chauvinistic. 
PICARD: Sound familiar? 
[Ten forward]

DATA: Something wonderful has happened. I can take
a deep breath now without feeling stabbing pain. I will never have to
face death again. Think of the things I will accomplish over the next
thousand years! What? Oh, I know what
you're thinking. There is no need to worry. I will create an android
body for you, too. We can witness the end of time together. Why are you
crying, Kareen? I can love you now. The way I always wanted to. It was
not right before. I was too old for you, too weak. Now I can be
everything you want me to be. 
KAREEN: I won't let you put me in a machine. I want to live my life. I
won't let you take it away from me. Ira! Ira, you're hurting me! 
(Data has been squeezing her hand. He jumps up and leaves) 
WORF: Worf to Captain Picard. 
[Ready room]

WORF [OC]: Commander Data has left Ten forward.
Should I follow? 
PICARD: Negative. I'll handle this myself. He was an expert in
cybernetics? 
TROI: Yes. 
PICARD: Our memorial service may have been premature. What an
achievement. 'So long as men can breathe or eyes can see, so long lives
this, and this gives life to thee.' 
(Shakespeare's
Sonnet 18, Shall I Compare Thee) 
TROI: He was working on bridging the gap between man and machine. 
PICARD: It seems he built that bridge. I may be forced to tear it down.

