TROI KAREEN PICARD RIKER WESLEY DATA

[Transporter room]

{Graves' body is in a torpedo case, wearing a
shroud.) 
PICARD: He was a fine man. A man of rare gifts. and great
accomplishments. He will be sorely missed. Does anyone else have
anything to say? 
(Selar, Troi, Wesley, Riker, Kareen and Data are the mourners. Data has
his head bowed. Geordi is at the transporter console.) 
DATA: I believe I have a few words to say, sir. (steps up to the case)
Just look at that face. The face of a thinker. A warrior. A man for all
seasons. Yes, Ira Graves was all that and more. But he was not perfect.
Perhaps his greatest fault was that he was too selfless. He cared too
much for his fellow man, with nary a thought for himself. A man of
limitless accomplishments, and unbridled modesty. I can safely say that
to know him was to love him. And to love him was to know him. Those who
knew him, loved him, while those who did not know him, loved him from
afar. 
PICARD: Data. 
DATA: I'm almost finished, sir. 
PICARD: You are finished, Data. 
(Picard gives Geordi the nod, Kareen says a final silent goodbye) 
PICARD: We now commit the body of Ira Graves to the timeless depths of
space. 
[Ready room]

DATA: I am sorry, sir. Perhaps it was my admiration
for Grandpa that got the best of me. 
PICARD: Grandpa? 
DATA: That is the way I think of him, sir. My only living relative, no
longer living. 
PICARD: Data. 
DATA: I was only trying to carry out his wishes. I just wanted to keep
my promise to him. 
PICARD: I know that, Data. Look, I realise you've been studying the
human equation with great alacrity, but perhaps you've been working at
it too much. Don't try so hard to be human. Just be yourself. All
right? 
DATA: Yes, sir. I will work on staying within myself. 
PICARD: Grand. You're dismissed, Mister Data. 
DATA: Thank you, sir. 
(Data leaves, ogles a crewwoman, and enters the turbolift whistling 'If
I Only Had A Heart')

Captain's personal log. Although Commander Data has
assured me that his odd behaviour will return to normal, I can't help
thinking that something went wrong during his visit to Gravesworld.

[Corridor]

TROI: I'm still concerned, Captain. I've never seen
him act like this. 
PICARD: Could it be that grandfather analogy that Graves planted in his
head?. Data is an orphan in a manner of speaking. Is it possible that
the loss of Graves might have affected him? Touched him on some
emotional level we didn't know he possessed? 
TROI: I hope you're right. I hope that's all it is. 
[Bridge]

WESLEY: That was a great speech, Data. To know know
him is to love him is to know him. 
DATA: Verbal composition at it's most sophisticated level. Your
child-like mind cannot appreciate the timeworn wisdom of my words. 
WESLEY: Child-like mind? 
DATA: When you get to be my age, you will understand. 
WESLEY: Your age? Data, chronologically, you're not much older than I
am. 
DATA: You are only as old as you feel. Try to remember that, boy. 
RIKER: You're not turning into a philosopher, are you, Mister Data? 
DATA: I am many things. Scholar, Artist, philosopher, lover, genius. 
WESLEY: Data, what's wrong with you? 
(Troi, Kareen and Picard enter) 
KAREEN: (re the viewscreen) How beautiful. 
PICARD: I thought you might enjoy the Bridge, Miss Brianon. I'm aware
of your interest in science. Perhaps you'd like to see the computer
terminal 
DATA: Yes, I'm aware of your interest in her. 
PICARD: What was that, Commander? 
DATA: Nothing sir. Nothing at all. 
PICARD: These are the science stations. From the command centre here,
we have control of the science stations (continues under) 
WESLEY: Data, what are you doing? 
DATA: I detest hypocrisy. I wish they would just come out and admit it!

PICARD: Admit what, Mister Data? 
DATA: That your interest in Kareen is not purely professional. Try as
you will, you cannot win her heart. She does not care for older men. Or
men of limited intellect. (looking at Riker) 
PICARD: Mister Data, you will come with me right now. Do you understand
me? 
DATA: I understand. I understand all too well. Removing the competition
will not help you, Picard. 
(Data leaves) 
PICARD: Excuse me. 
(Picard leaves) 
RIKER: Do you know what that was all about? 
TROI: Jealousy. Intense, burning jealousy. A human emotion, and it was
coming from Data.

