PICARD [OC] TROI GRAVES WORF DATA SELAR KAREEN
necessarily die desk existing transfer hell gets loop ira

[Graves' laboratory] 
(Graves is whistling 'If I only had a heart' from
the Wizard of Oz in between coughing at his desk) 
DATA: I have noticed, Doctor 
GRAVES: Call me Grandpa. Seems more touching in my final hours. 
DATA: I have noticed, Grandpa, that you keep repeating the same notes
of a musical phrase I am unfamiliar with. 
GRAVES: It's an ancient little tune called 'If I Only Had A Heart.' A
plaintive lament sung by a mechanical man who longs to be human. It's
his only wish. 
DATA: What happens to this man? 
GRAVES: He finds out he's human after all. Always was. Just worried so
much, he never realised it. 
DATA: A happy ending. The mechanical man gets his wish. 
GRAVES: Stories often have happy endings. It's life that throws you for
a loop. It must be so hard for you, to be so close to being human and
yet never really knowing what it's like to know pain. 
DATA: But pain is unpleasant, is it not? 
GRAVES: Pain. Lust. Envy. Pleasure. Desire. Do you know what desire is,
Data? 
DATA: Desire? To long for, to crave, a wish, a request, a 
GRAVES: Do you know what desire is? 
DATA: No. I do not suppose I will ever really know. 
GRAVES: I feel pity for you. Your existence must be a kind of walking
purgatory. Neither dead nor alive. Never really feeling anything. Just
existing. Just existing. Listen to me. A dying man takes the time to
mourn a man who will never know death. Funny, isn't it? 
DATA: Funny. I have had great difficulty determining what funny is. 
GRAVES: I've had the same difficulty most of my life. We're much alike.

[Living room]

SELAR: I'd say he has a week, but that's only an
estimate. We do know that the disease attacks the brain and nervous
system. We can expect more of the erratic behaviour of the kind you've
been noticing. 
TROI: His feelings towards you are very warm. He's attracted to you in
many ways. 
KAREEN: Attracted? I know I've felt certain feelings from him. And for
him. Had I been older, perhaps we could've been. That's not the way it
worked out. And now it's like he's afraid to face me. The only one he
talks to is your friend, Data.

[Graves' laboratory]

DATA: You mentioned your impending death, Grandpa.
May I say you face it with remarkable courage and stoicism. 
GRAVES: That is because I am an incredible man, possessing an iron will
and nerves of steel. Two traits that helped me become the genius I am
today as well as the lady killer I was in days gone by. 
DATA: You condone homicide, sir? 
GRAVES: It's an expression, Data. It means I was once as beautiful as I
am smart. 
DATA: Really, Grandpa? 
GRAVES: No, not really. But what the hell. I'm dying. I can remember my
life any way I want. And I'll let you into a little secret, Sonny. I
don't really believe I will be dying. 
DATA: But the Doctor 
GRAVES: Oh, I'll die, but I won't really be dead. You see, I believe
I've learned to transfer the wealth of my knowledge into
a computer. Before I die, I plan to transfer my great intelligence into
this machine, thus cheating the Grim Reaper of his greatest prize. But
what would you know of death? It is a subject forever alien to you. 
DATA: That is not necessarily true, Grandpa. I do have an off button,
if you will. Its activation robs me of my consciousness, therefore
rendering me dead for all intents and purposes. It is not something I
enjoy contemplating. 
GRAVES: I can understand that. Just where would Soong position such a
device? Don't tell me, let me guess.

[Living room]

PICARD [OC]: Captain to away team. We're standing
by. 
SELAR: I do not wish to interrupt Data and the Doctor. They seem to
have developed a genuine rapport. But the Enterprise has reached it's
orbit and I'd like to transport Graves to the ship as soon as possible.

(Data enters) 
DATA: That will not be necessary, Doctor. He is gone. 
WORF: Gone? 
DATA: It happened just a few moments ago, in my arms. Ira Graves is
dead.

Captain's log, supplemental. I leave Gravesworld
with an empty feeling and the knowledge that our mission was
unsuccessful. Whatever scientific secrets Ira Graves was about to
unlock have been lost forever. Our immediate priority is to reach the
nearest starbase so that Graves' assistant can get on with her life.

