PICARD TROI DATA LAFORGE
waste ve interrupting bounds obviously health human times kareen

[Ready room]

(Data is preening himself in the reflection in the
window) 
DATA: If you wish to apologise, I am prepared to listen. 
PICARD: You expect me to apologise to you? 
DATA: You were a bit rude to me. Might make you feel better if you said
you were sorry. 
PICARD: Data, something has obviously gone wrong with your circuitry. 
DATA: That is ridiculous. I am as healthy as a Rigelian ox. 
PICARD: I wish I could believe that. I would accompany you to to
Sickbay, but I doubt if that would do us any good. 
DATA: Sickbay? Are you ill, Captain? 
PICARD: I'm getting there. I'm going to have Engineering run a full
physical on you. 
DATA: I am sure that will not be necessary, Captain. I am fully capable
of running a circuit check on myself. It will immediately determine any
abnormalities. 
PICARD: Do it. That's an order. 
DATA: Just as I expected. I am fine. Could not be better. 
PICARD: For the first time since I've known you, I don't believe you. 
[Engineering]

(Geordi is trying to check on Data with an
electronic 'Lasso' device around his head, but Data keeps moving) 
LAFORGE: Try and hold still, will you, Data? 
PICARD: Data, will you wait for me in the corridor. 
DATA: Why should I? This concerns me more than it does any of you. 
PICARD: You will wait for me in the corridor. (Data leaves) His
insubordination is growing by leaps and bounds. I could use discipline,
but I'd rather try and help him. 
LAFORGE: I wish I knew what to suggest. I'm damned if I can find a
thing wrong with him. 
TROI: Perhaps we're looking in the wrong place. 
PICARD: Meaning? 
TROI: Well, if Data's physical health is unimpaired, perhaps his mental
health needs to be addressed. 
LAFORGE: What, are you saying that Data is losing his mind? 
TROI: With your permission, Captain, there is one way to find out. 
[Data's quarters]

TROI: Now, Data, you remember the psychotronic
stability examination. We all had to take it before graduating from the
Academy. 
DATA: It was a waste of time then and it is a waste of time now. 
TROI: It will just gauge your psychological reactions to the images it
projects. Watch the screen and let your mind go blank. The device will
do the rest. 
(She puts cortical monitors on his forehead and a series of images
flashes on a screen, including a waterfall, Kareen, fire, Graves,
Tasha, Kareen again, Picard and other crew members. They get faster and
he gets more tense)

[Ready room]

PICARD: It's safe to say that you're his best
friend. Is it possible to speculate about what's happening to him? 
LAFORGE: Well, sir, it's just a guess, but, sometimes he wants to be
human so badly he can taste it. I think he just tends to get confused
when his human qualities surface. 
PICARD: Go on. 
LAFORGE: Witnessing Graves' death may have been some sort of catalyst
for the way he 
(Troi enters, interrupting) 
TROI: I have the results of the tests. I ran them several times to be
sure. 
PICARD: To be sure of what? 
TROI: There are two disparate personalities within Lieutenant Commander
Data. Each distinctly different. A dominant and a recessive. 
PICARD: But he's an android. Is that possible! 
TROI: It must be. The dominant personality is unstable. Brilliant but
vain, sensitive yet paranoid. And I believe it is prone to
irrationality. 
PICARD: Of course. 
TROI: Sir? 
PICARD: Nothing. Go on. 
TROI: It seems to have an especially strong hatred of you, Captain, or
to a lesser degree, any authority figure. And worst part is, it's
growing. 
PICARD: How do you mean? 
TROI: The alien persona is getting stronger and gobbling up what is
left of the weaker ego, the Data we know. If something isn't done to
stop it immediately, we will lose our Data forever. 
Captain's personal log. We have arrived at Starbase
Six where Miss Brianon will await transport back to Earth. I am greatly
troubled by the unusual behaviour of Commander Data and fear that
somehow it is directly related to the experiments of Ira Graves. 
