TROI LAFORGE WORF PICARD PULASKI DATA KAREEN

[Ten forward]

DATA: Something wonderful has happened. I can take
a deep breath now without feeling stabbing pain. I will never have to
face death again. Think of the things I will accomplish over the next
thousand years! What? Oh, I know what
you're thinking. There is no need to worry. I will create an android
body for you, too. We can witness the end of time together. Why are you
crying, Kareen? I can love you now. The way I always wanted to. It was
not right before. I was too old for you, too weak. Now I can be
everything you want me to be. 
KAREEN: I won't let you put me in a machine. I want to live my life. I
won't let you take it away from me. Ira! Ira, you're hurting me! 
(Data has been squeezing her hand. He jumps up and leaves) 
WORF: Worf to Captain Picard. 
[Ready room]

WORF [OC]: Commander Data has left Ten forward.
Should I follow? 
PICARD: Negative. I'll handle this myself. He was an expert in
cybernetics? 
TROI: Yes. 
PICARD: Our memorial service may have been premature. What an
achievement. 'So long as men can breathe or eyes can see, so long lives
this, and this gives life to thee.' 
(Shakespeare's
Sonnet 18, Shall I Compare Thee) 
TROI: He was working on bridging the gap between man and machine. 
PICARD: It seems he built that bridge. I may be forced to tear it down.

[Engineering]

(Data is standing on the upper gantry by the warp
core) 
DATA: I can hear you coming, Captain. My ears are better than the
average dog's, you know. 
(Picard enters on the ground floor) 
PICARD: I know who you are and what you've done. 
DATA: Of course you do. 
PICARD: I came here to talk to Data. 
DATA: I cannot allow that. 
PICARD: I understand your desperation. The shock of learning you were
dying. But you had no right to do what you have done. 
DATA: I had every right, Captain. I am man, he is machine. There is no
question who must live and what must die. 
PICARD: What of Data? 
DATA: Data? Before me, he was nothing. Just a walking tin can with
circuits for intestines. Pathetic. Without heart, a man is meaningless.
I would not come up here if I were you, Captain. I might not like it. 
(Picard gets in the lift and goes up. Then we see Geordi lying on the
floor) 
DATA: You are most fortunate, my dear Captain, that I am not a violent
man. 
PICARD: Not a violent man? 
DATA: (refers to Geordi) This is not my fault. They told me I was not
supposed to be up here. They should not have done that. 
PICARD: Graves, listen to me. No one can deny the significance of your
transformation. But I don't believe that this was part of your plan.
Encountering Data was mere coincidence. One that offered you more than
you could have dreamed. But something has gone wrong. Look here.
Graves, this experiment must be terminated. 
DATA: This is idiotic. 
PICARD: Picard to Sickbay. 
PULASKI [OC]: Yes, Captain. 
PICARD: How is Miss Brianon? 
PULASKI [OC]: Her left hand is fractured in two places. We've just
begun treatment. 
PICARD: I'm afraid there are two more injuries in Engineering. 
PULASKI [OC]: I'm on my way. 
PICARD: Who's next? 
DATA: These were all accidents. I did not intend 
PICARD: How many more accidents? You must leave this body. 
DATA: No, I live here now. 
PICARD: Graves, every man has his time. Every man, without exception.
But you've cheated. You have extended your life at the expense of
another. Graves, give Data back. Give him back. 
DATA: Data is dead. 
PICARD: No. He must not be lost. He's not simply an android. He's a
life form, entirely unique. 
DATA: Data is not human! He is 
PICARD: He is different, yes. But that does not make him expendable, or
any less significant. No being is so important that he can usurp the
rights of another. Now set him free! 
DATA: No! 
(And Data hits Picard, knocking him out to land on the floor with
Geordi and the engineer, Data/Ira is horrified at what he has done) 
DATA: How many? How many more accidents? 
(It is a little later. Pulaski has arrived and is tending to a waking
Picard) 
PICARD: Data! Where is he? 
PULASKI: Just take it easy. 
PICARD: I can't afford to take it easy, Doctor. (to computer) Tell me,
where is Lieutenant Commander Data? 
[Data's quarters]

(Data is lying on the floor as Geordi, Picard,
Kareen and Pulaski enter) 
LAFORGE: Data. Data, can you hear me? 
(Data opens his eyes) 
DATA: Geordi. 
LAFORGE: Yeah. 
DATA: May I ask a question? 
LAFORGE: I think you just did. 
DATA: Quite correct. Then may I ask another question after this one? 
LAFORGE: You can ask me anything you want. 
DATA: Why am I lying on the floor in this undignified position with the
four of you standing over me, displaying expressions of concern? 
PICARD: I've heard more than enough. You're you again. 
KAREEN: Captain. Captain, look at this. 
(Lines of text are scrolling down a screen) 
KAREEN: He's in there. Ira put himself in the computer. 
Captain's log, supplemental. We've said goodbye to
Kareen Brianon, with the hopeful feeling that her future will be a
bright one. The intellect of Ira Graves has been deposited into our
computer. There is knowledge but no consciousness. The human equation
has been lost. 
