TROI KAREEN PICARD RIKER WESLEY DATA LAFORGE
needs said stations men jealousy timeworn speech health hope

[Corridor]

TROI: I'm still concerned, Captain. I've never seen
him act like this. 
PICARD: Could it be that grandfather analogy that Graves planted in his
head?. Data is an orphan in a manner of speaking. Is it possible that
the loss of Graves might have affected him? Touched him on some
emotional level we didn't know he possessed? 
TROI: I hope you're right. I hope that's all it is. 
[Bridge]

WESLEY: That was a great speech, Data. To know know
him is to love him is to know him. 
DATA: Verbal composition at it's most sophisticated level. Your
child-like mind cannot appreciate the timeworn wisdom of my words. 
WESLEY: Child-like mind? 
DATA: When you get to be my age, you will understand. 
WESLEY: Your age? Data, chronologically, you're not much older than I
am. 
DATA: You are only as old as you feel. Try to remember that, boy. 
RIKER: You're not turning into a philosopher, are you, Mister Data? 
DATA: I am many things. Scholar, Artist, philosopher, lover, genius. 
WESLEY: Data, what's wrong with you? 
(Troi, Kareen and Picard enter) 
KAREEN: (re the viewscreen) How beautiful. 
PICARD: I thought you might enjoy the Bridge, Miss Brianon. I'm aware
of your interest in science. Perhaps you'd like to see the computer
terminal 
DATA: Yes, I'm aware of your interest in her. 
PICARD: What was that, Commander? 
DATA: Nothing sir. Nothing at all. 
PICARD: These are the science stations. From the command centre here,
we have control of the science stations (continues under) 
WESLEY: Data, what are you doing? 
DATA: I detest hypocrisy. I wish they would just come out and admit it!

PICARD: Admit what, Mister Data? 
DATA: That your interest in Kareen is not purely professional. Try as
you will, you cannot win her heart. She does not care for older men. Or
men of limited intellect. (looking at Riker) 
PICARD: Mister Data, you will come with me right now. Do you understand
me? 
DATA: I understand. I understand all too well. Removing the competition
will not help you, Picard. 
(Data leaves) 
PICARD: Excuse me. 
(Picard leaves) 
RIKER: Do you know what that was all about? 
TROI: Jealousy. Intense, burning jealousy. A human emotion, and it was
coming from Data.

[Ready room]

(Data is preening himself in the reflection in the
window) 
DATA: If you wish to apologise, I am prepared to listen. 
PICARD: You expect me to apologise to you? 
DATA: You were a bit rude to me. Might make you feel better if you said
you were sorry. 
PICARD: Data, something has obviously gone wrong with your circuitry. 
DATA: That is ridiculous. I am as healthy as a Rigelian ox. 
PICARD: I wish I could believe that. I would accompany you to to
Sickbay, but I doubt if that would do us any good. 
DATA: Sickbay? Are you ill, Captain? 
PICARD: I'm getting there. I'm going to have Engineering run a full
physical on you. 
DATA: I am sure that will not be necessary, Captain. I am fully capable
of running a circuit check on myself. It will immediately determine any
abnormalities. 
PICARD: Do it. That's an order. 
DATA: Just as I expected. I am fine. Could not be better. 
PICARD: For the first time since I've known you, I don't believe you. 
[Engineering]

(Geordi is trying to check on Data with an
electronic 'Lasso' device around his head, but Data keeps moving) 
LAFORGE: Try and hold still, will you, Data? 
PICARD: Data, will you wait for me in the corridor. 
DATA: Why should I? This concerns me more than it does any of you. 
PICARD: You will wait for me in the corridor. (Data leaves) His
insubordination is growing by leaps and bounds. I could use discipline,
but I'd rather try and help him. 
LAFORGE: I wish I knew what to suggest. I'm damned if I can find a
thing wrong with him. 
TROI: Perhaps we're looking in the wrong place. 
PICARD: Meaning? 
TROI: Well, if Data's physical health is unimpaired, perhaps his mental
health needs to be addressed. 
LAFORGE: What, are you saying that Data is losing his mind? 
TROI: With your permission, Captain, there is one way to find out. 
