PICARD [OC] TROI GRAVES WORF DATA SELAR KAREEN
knows transfer existing mildly die yes insult quite women

[Living room]

PICARD [OC]: At all costs. 
DATA: Understood, sir. I suggest we look around to see if anybody is
home. 
WORF: No need, Commander. 
KAREEN: You heard me. Thank God. I'm Kareen Brianon, Doctor Graves'
assistant. 
TROI: We're from a ship called the Enterprise. We monitored your
distress call but then you never acknowledged our response. 
KAREEN: I'm sorry, I couldn't take the chance. 
TROI: Chance? What chance? 
(A door opens and a crotchety old man enters) 
GRAVES: The chance that I might find out someone was coming. Kareen
knew full well that I would not be pleased, to put it mildly. 
KAREEN: I had no choice. I refuse to stand by and watch you
deteriorate. 
SELAR: (a Vulcan lady played by Susie Plaxton) What symptoms have you
noticed? 
KAREEN: He has pain, shortness of breath, irritability. 
GRAVES: Ridiculous! I'm as healthy as a Rigelian ox! 
KAREEN: He's not himself, believe me. His temper is completely out of
control. 
GRAVES: Nonsense! 
KAREEN: Ira! 
SELAR: I am a doctor. Lieutenant Selar. 
GRAVES: No offense, but I don't want you touching me in any way. It's
no secret that I don't like people much, and I like doctors even less. 
TROI: That's funny, I thought most doctors were people. 
GRAVES: Then you're wrong. Ask any patient. Although I will admit, for
a doctor you're not a bad looking woman. Well, well, well, what have we
got here? Another lovely specimen of womanhood. 
TROI: I thought you didn't like people. 
GRAVES: Women aren't people. They're women. (he kisses her hand) 
TROI: I'm Deanna Troi. It's an honour to meet you, Doctor Graves. 
GRAVES: Yes, of course it is. This is one of the truly great moments of
your life. 
KAREEN: Excuse me, sir. Are you a Romulan? 
WORF: Hardly. 
GRAVES: He's a Klingon, Kareen. Kareen has lived here since her father
died when she was very young. Her only knowledge of unhuman races comes
from me. Klingons and Romulans don't look much alike, Kareen, even
though they act much alike. 
WORF: Must I stand here and be insulted? 
GRAVES: No insult intended, Mister Klingon. You see, Doctor, there's
nothing wrong with my hearing. My, my, my, my. 
DATA: Lieutenant Commander Data 
GRAVES: Shhh! Absolutely no aesthetic value whatsoever. Looks like
Soong's work. 
(Selar is examining Graves behind his back) 
DATA: Quite correct, sir! Did you know Doctor Soong? 
GRAVES: Know him?! I taught him everything he knows. You could say that
I was the father of his work. Which kind of makes me your grandfather,
doesn't it sonny? Damn doctors! Always sneaking up on one. Attacking
from the rear. Go on, gorgeous. Spit it out. Whatever the hell it is, I
can take it. 
SELAR: I've checked twice to make certain. You have Darnay's disease.
I'm sorry, Doctor Graves. It's in it's final stage. 
KAREEN: Can't you do something for him? 
SELAR: In all cases, Darnay's is terminal. 
Captain's log, Stardate 42437.7. We've successfully
repaired the stricken liner, Constantinople. Forty six of her people
suffered injuries, mostly minor. They have been treated and supplied
with the proper medicines. Our task complete, we are heading back to
Gravesworld with great dispatch.

[Graves' laboratory] 
(Graves is whistling 'If I only had a heart' from
the Wizard of Oz in between coughing at his desk) 
DATA: I have noticed, Doctor 
GRAVES: Call me Grandpa. Seems more touching in my final hours. 
DATA: I have noticed, Grandpa, that you keep repeating the same notes
of a musical phrase I am unfamiliar with. 
GRAVES: It's an ancient little tune called 'If I Only Had A Heart.' A
plaintive lament sung by a mechanical man who longs to be human. It's
his only wish. 
DATA: What happens to this man? 
GRAVES: He finds out he's human after all. Always was. Just worried so
much, he never realised it. 
DATA: A happy ending. The mechanical man gets his wish. 
GRAVES: Stories often have happy endings. It's life that throws you for
a loop. It must be so hard for you, to be so close to being human and
yet never really knowing what it's like to know pain. 
DATA: But pain is unpleasant, is it not? 
GRAVES: Pain. Lust. Envy. Pleasure. Desire. Do you know what desire is,
Data? 
DATA: Desire? To long for, to crave, a wish, a request, a 
GRAVES: Do you know what desire is? 
DATA: No. I do not suppose I will ever really know. 
GRAVES: I feel pity for you. Your existence must be a kind of walking
purgatory. Neither dead nor alive. Never really feeling anything. Just
existing. Just existing. Listen to me. A dying man takes the time to
mourn a man who will never know death. Funny, isn't it? 
DATA: Funny. I have had great difficulty determining what funny is. 
GRAVES: I've had the same difficulty most of my life. We're much alike.

[Living room]

SELAR: I'd say he has a week, but that's only an
estimate. We do know that the disease attacks the brain and nervous
system. We can expect more of the erratic behaviour of the kind you've
been noticing. 
TROI: His feelings towards you are very warm. He's attracted to you in
many ways. 
KAREEN: Attracted? I know I've felt certain feelings from him. And for
him. Had I been older, perhaps we could've been. That's not the way it
worked out. And now it's like he's afraid to face me. The only one he
talks to is your friend, Data.

[Graves' laboratory]

DATA: You mentioned your impending death, Grandpa.
May I say you face it with remarkable courage and stoicism. 
GRAVES: That is because I am an incredible man, possessing an iron will
and nerves of steel. Two traits that helped me become the genius I am
today as well as the lady killer I was in days gone by. 
DATA: You condone homicide, sir? 
GRAVES: It's an expression, Data. It means I was once as beautiful as I
am smart. 
DATA: Really, Grandpa? 
GRAVES: No, not really. But what the hell. I'm dying. I can remember my
life any way I want. And I'll let you into a little secret, Sonny. I
don't really believe I will be dying. 
DATA: But the Doctor 
GRAVES: Oh, I'll die, but I won't really be dead. You see, I believe
I've learned to transfer the wealth of my knowledge into
a computer. Before I die, I plan to transfer my great intelligence into
this machine, thus cheating the Grim Reaper of his greatest prize. But
what would you know of death? It is a subject forever alien to you. 
DATA: That is not necessarily true, Grandpa. I do have an off button,
if you will. Its activation robs me of my consciousness, therefore
rendering me dead for all intents and purposes. It is not something I
enjoy contemplating. 
GRAVES: I can understand that. Just where would Soong position such a
device? Don't tell me, let me guess.

