TROI LAFORGE WORF PICARD RIKER PULASKI DATA
pre control major blue ocean increase sunset catalyst sorry

[Observation lounge]

(Riva is gesturing angrily to Troi and Data as
Picard enters) 
PICARD: How did this happen? 
RIKER: A total surprise. Apparently a member of one of the factions
didn't like the idea of peace. 
PICARD: I don't understand what you're trying to say. Counsellor? 
TROI: Riva, go slowly. Slowly. 
PICARD: Can you write it out? I am so sorry that your friends were
killed. I'm sorry, I don't know what you are trying to tell me. We have
to find some way to communicate with him. Data, he knows some kind of
gestural language. Find our which one and learn it. 
DATA: Aye, sir. 
PICARD: Counsellor, take him to Sickbay. Maybe Pulaski can help. (grabs
Riva's head) Listen to me. You are not alone. Do you understand? We are
all in this together now. 
Captain's log, supplemental. We are monitoring
increased military activity on Solais Five. I fear that without Riva,
we will be unable to keep the Solari from destroying themselves. 
[Bridge]

RIKER: How's it going? 
DATA: I have eliminated all but five distinct forms of signing. I will
learn them all. Computer, show me gestural language designation M nine.

WORF: Interesting. A technique of communication which is both silent
and covert. It could be very useful. 
DATA: The use of gestures and hand signals pre dates the spoken word in
most cultures. The major exception being the Leyrons of Malkus Nine who
actually developed a written language first. Computer, continue
presentation. Increase. Increase. Increase. Increase.

[Ready room]

PICARD: Come. 
(Troi and Pulaski enter) 
PICARD: How's our mediator. 
TROI: The same. He's withdrawn. He's very frightened. All of his life
he's been in control, and now for the first time he doesn't have any
answers. The doctor gave him a complete medical examination. 
PULASKI: His condition is hereditary. His brain cannot receive auditory
information. So all the prosthetics and surgical techniques I can use
wouldn't work. 
TROI: I don't know what we can do to help him. 
PULASKI: I can't do anything. 
TROI: It's up to him, and he's stopped cooperating.
PICARD: Counsellor, couldn't you? 
TROI: Confidence is faith in oneself. It can't easily be given by
another. 
PICARD: You're right, of course. (doorbell) Come. 
(Data enters) 
DATA: Captain, I have reviewed and stored five distinct signing
languages. Here is an example of the first. This is blue. This is a
blue ocean. This is a blue ocean at sunset. This is two people walking
along the beach by a blue ocean at sunset. This is two happy people in
love walking along the beach by a blue ocean at sunset. This is two
people 
PICARD: Enough. Let's talk to Riva.

[Observation lounge]

(for Data, read as if Riva is talking) 
PICARD: Riva, Commander Data has learned your sign language. Talk to
us. 
DATA: It was my fault. I am responsible for their deaths. In my
arrogance I thought no one could possibly harm the great Riva. I am
such a fool. 
PICARD: You are not to blame. What happened appears to have been the
work of one
desperate man. It may not reflect the feelings of the others. 
DATA: They were more than my interpreters. They were also my friends.
They were a part of me. I did not realise how much a part until now. 
PICARD: We have been contacted by the factions on Solais. They want to
renew negotiations. 
DATA: I cannot. I will not. 
TROI: Don't turn away. You have a chance to make some good come out of
this tragedy. This could be the catalyst which binds them together. 
DATA: Someone else will have to speak with them, not me. Not after what
I allowed to happen/ How could I? 
PICARD: But Data can understand you. Use him. Let him explain your
words. 
DATA: When Data speaks for me, can you hear my anguish, my despair?
Data is a fine machine, but he cannot take the place of my chorus. It
took years to develop a communication. That cannot be easily replaced. 
TROI: The Solari need you. 
DATA: I cannot help them. Captain, please take me back to Ramatis. 
PICARD: That is regrettable. A lot more people are going to die. 
(Riva storms out of the room) 
[Sickbay]

(Geordi is having a check-up on his implants) 
PULASKI: It's possible to install optical devices which look like
normal eyes, and would still give you about the same visual range as
the visor. 
LAFORGE: Done? You say almost. How much reduction? 
PULASKI: Twenty percent. There is another option. I can attempt to
regenerate your optic nerve, and, with the help of the replicator,
fashion normal eyes. You would see like everyone else. 
LAFORGE: Wait a minute. I was told that was impossible. 
PULASKI: I've done it twice, in situations somewhat similar to yours.
Geordi, it would eliminate the constant pain you are under. Why are you
hesitating? 
LAFORGE: Well, when I came to see you, it was to talk about modifying
this. And now you're saying it could be possible for me to have normal
vision? 
PULASKI: Yes. 
LAFORGE: I don't know. I'd be giving up a lot. 
PULASKI: There's something else you must know. This is a one shot. If
you decide to change your mind, there's no going back. And there are
risks. I can offer choices, not guarantees. 
LAFORGE: Well, this is a lot to think about. I'll get back to you,
Doctor. Thank you. 
[Guest quarters]

(Troi and Data enter. Data speaks for Riva) 
TROI: The Captain is going to take you to Ramatis. But first, he's
given me permission to attempt to settle the conflict down on Solais.
Yes. We've come so far, and paid such a terrible price, I must try.
Help me. 
DATA: You would be better off without my help. 
TROI: I have never attempted anything like this before. When dealing
with two factions so diametrically opposed, so entrenched in their
positions, where do you start? 
DATA: You want to know if I had some special technique? 
TROI: I want to know anything you can tell me that could help. 
DATA: There is no trick. I had no magic. 
TROI: What about your Chorus? 
DATA: Yes, my Chorus was special. They allowed me to combine different
perceptions. 
TROI: So there was a trick. 
DATA: Not really. My technique was to look for some thing, no matter
how small, that was common to both groups, and then to begin a process
where one person or one group expresses themselves to each other. 
TROI: That's very hard to accomplish. 
DATA: Yes, but what is even more difficult is to get each side to
listen, really listen to each other, and to understand. 
TROI: This isn't going to be easy for me. 
DATA: You are very good with people. 
TROI: But what I do is different. 
DATA: The real secret is turning disadvantage to advantage. 
TROI: Why can't you do that? Why can't you turn your disadvantage into
an advantage? 
DATA: That is an interesting. It would give them something in common.
(to Troi) I do not understand, Counsellor. To what is he referring? 
(Riva kisses Troi on the cheek, and thanks Data) 
DATA: Thank you. Thank me? Ah! 
PICARD: I will have the Captain contact then down on the planet and
tell them to prepare for your return.

