TROI WOMAN ALIEN 2 [on viewscreen] SCHOLAR WORF PICARD RIKER ADONIS WESLEY DATA ALIEN 1 [on viewscreen]
land observation lots breaking possible reason important relevance sorry

[Guest quarters]

ADONIS: Much of what we do is similar. 
TROI: Yes, I suppose in a way it is. 
ADONIS: We have both learned how to allow people to examine feelings
hidden deep within their psyche. In fact, with you here now is
provoking an emotional revelation. 
TROI: You mean some emotion buried in your psyche? 
ADONIS: Well, not that deep. 
TROI: Exactly what are you feeling? 
ADONIS: Can't you tell? 
TROI: Some of it. 
ADONIS: Well I feel that soon, perhaps after the briefing by your
Captain, that you will be hungry, and that perhaps we could dine
together and compare experiences. 
TROI: I'd like that. 
ADONIS: As will I. 
TROI: Will he be with us? 
ADONIS: Well, until we find our own method of communication. 
TROI: I look forward to that time. 
ADONIS: As do I.

[Observation lounge]

(Picard enters) 
PICARD: I'm sorry, Data. Begin the briefing. 
DATA: The factions on Solais Five are historical enemies. So many have
died that both societies are on the verge of extinction. 
SCHOLAR: Enough. Thank you, Captain, there is no need to continue. The
specific issues of the conflict have no relevance. 
RIKER: So none of the background which we have provided would be
helpful in understanding why they continue to fight? 
SCHOLAR: The portfolio will indicate that the conflict is over a piece
of land, or wealth, or some other tangible asset. But we both know that
is not the case. 
RIKER: They've been at war for so long, it has become personal. 
SCHOLAR: Exactly. The basis for peace must also be personal. This is an
historic confrontation, correct? 
DATA: The factions have been at war for fifteen centuries. 
SCHOLAR: What's changed? 
DATA: I do not know what you mean. 
SCHOLAR: They have been killing each other for a long time, now they
want to talk peace. So something about this situation has recently
changed. What's the new piece to the puzzle? 
PICARD: Data? 
DATA: Unknown, sir. 
RIKER: Perhaps they have run out of people to kill. In any case,
whatever the reason, peace is now preferred,
which should make your job easier. 
SCHOLAR: Well, if not easier, at least possible, for now they are
motivated. But it doesn't matter. I'll find something. I always have. 
PICARD: Always? 
SCHOLAR: To date, I have never failed. Now, unless there is something
else? 
PICARD: No. This is for your benefit. 
WOMAN: Then, thank you for your time and effort. 
ADONIS: I believe I have to get ready for a dinner appointment. 
WOMAN: (as the men are already heading out the door) If you will excuse
me. 
PICARD: Yes, of course. The meeting is adjourned. 
RIKER: Our mediator is very self assured. We'll know soon enough if he
can deliver.

[Bridge]

WESLEY: We're approaching Solais Five. 
RIKER: Half impulse. 
WESLEY: Slowing to one half impulse.

[Guest quarters]

(Troi and Riva are eating, as the Adonis stands
nearby) 
ADONIS: The sound of this ship is quite remarkable. Can't you feel it? 
TROI: Yes. 
ADONIS: It moves through my body like a great pulse. 
TROI: I've grown so accustomed to it, I forget it's there. 
ADONIS: It's easy to let that happen. Sometimes we must allow the
surroundings to flow over us, to dwell on each separate part, how it
feels, to allow it to fill you. 
(The Adonis leaves) 
TROI: How do we communicate? I know you can read lips, but I need your
words. 
(Riva begins to use sign language and Troi works out their meaning.) 
TROI: Words are here on top. What's under them, their meaning, is
what's important. Yes, that's true. We both know how to express
important words, like dream. Being here with you. Yes, being here with
you know is very special to me, too.

[Bridge]

RIKER: Standard orbit. 
WORF: Captain, I'm reading laser activity on the Solais Five. 
RIKER: How concentrated is the activity? 
WORF: It is localised, but very intense. 
RIKER: So much for the cease fire. 
PICARD: Hailing frequencies. 
WORF: I'm receiving one side only. 
PICARD: This is Captain Jean Luc Picard, commander of the Federation
starship USS Enterprise. If you continue to violate the cease fire, I
will abort this mission. 
(The viewscreen image has lots of interference.) 
ALIEN 1 [on viewscreen]: You have no jurisdiction here, Picard. Where
is Riva? 
PICARD: Riva is in charge of the summit. I command the ship that brings
him. I will not endanger this ship under any circumstances. 
WORF: The other faction is breaking through, sir. 
ALIEN 2 [on viewscreen]: Riva gave his word we would speak to no one
else. Now who breaks the rules? Where is Riva? 
PICARD: I shall summon him for you. Get Riva here. 
