TROI LAFORGE WORF PICARD RIKER PULASKI WESLEY DATA

[Observation lounge]

(for Data, read as if Riva is talking) 
PICARD: Riva, Commander Data has learned your sign language. Talk to
us. 
DATA: It was my fault. I am responsible for their deaths. In my
arrogance I thought no one could possibly harm the great Riva. I am
such a fool. 
PICARD: You are not to blame. What happened appears to have been the
work of one
desperate man. It may not reflect the feelings of the others. 
DATA: They were more than my interpreters. They were also my friends.
They were a part of me. I did not realise how much a part until now. 
PICARD: We have been contacted by the factions on Solais. They want to
renew negotiations. 
DATA: I cannot. I will not. 
TROI: Don't turn away. You have a chance to make some good come out of
this tragedy. This could be the catalyst which binds them together. 
DATA: Someone else will have to speak with them, not me. Not after what
I allowed to happen/ How could I? 
PICARD: But Data can understand you. Use him. Let him explain your
words. 
DATA: When Data speaks for me, can you hear my anguish, my despair?
Data is a fine machine, but he cannot take the place of my chorus. It
took years to develop a communication. That cannot be easily replaced. 
TROI: The Solari need you. 
DATA: I cannot help them. Captain, please take me back to Ramatis. 
PICARD: That is regrettable. A lot more people are going to die. 
(Riva storms out of the room) 
[Sickbay]

(Geordi is having a check-up on his implants) 
PULASKI: It's possible to install optical devices which look like
normal eyes, and would still give you about the same visual range as
the visor. 
LAFORGE: Done? You say almost. How much reduction? 
PULASKI: Twenty percent. There is another option. I can attempt to
regenerate your optic nerve, and, with the help of the replicator,
fashion normal eyes. You would see like everyone else. 
LAFORGE: Wait a minute. I was told that was impossible. 
PULASKI: I've done it twice, in situations somewhat similar to yours.
Geordi, it would eliminate the constant pain you are under. Why are you
hesitating? 
LAFORGE: Well, when I came to see you, it was to talk about modifying
this. And now you're saying it could be possible for me to have normal
vision? 
PULASKI: Yes. 
LAFORGE: I don't know. I'd be giving up a lot. 
PULASKI: There's something else you must know. This is a one shot. If
you decide to change your mind, there's no going back. And there are
risks. I can offer choices, not guarantees. 
LAFORGE: Well, this is a lot to think about. I'll get back to you,
Doctor. Thank you. 
[Guest quarters]

(Troi and Data enter. Data speaks for Riva) 
TROI: The Captain is going to take you to Ramatis. But first, he's
given me permission to attempt to settle the conflict down on Solais.
Yes. We've come so far, and paid such a terrible price, I must try.
Help me. 
DATA: You would be better off without my help. 
TROI: I have never attempted anything like this before. When dealing
with two factions so diametrically opposed, so entrenched in their
positions, where do you start? 
DATA: You want to know if I had some special technique? 
TROI: I want to know anything you can tell me that could help. 
DATA: There is no trick. I had no magic. 
TROI: What about your Chorus? 
DATA: Yes, my Chorus was special. They allowed me to combine different
perceptions. 
TROI: So there was a trick. 
DATA: Not really. My technique was to look for some thing, no matter
how small, that was common to both groups, and then to begin a process
where one person or one group expresses themselves to each other. 
TROI: That's very hard to accomplish. 
DATA: Yes, but what is even more difficult is to get each side to
listen, really listen to each other, and to understand. 
TROI: This isn't going to be easy for me. 
DATA: You are very good with people. 
TROI: But what I do is different. 
DATA: The real secret is turning disadvantage to advantage. 
TROI: Why can't you do that? Why can't you turn your disadvantage into
an advantage? 
DATA: That is an interesting. It would give them something in common.
(to Troi) I do not understand, Counsellor. To what is he referring? 
(Riva kisses Troi on the cheek, and thanks Data) 
DATA: Thank you. Thank me? Ah! 
PICARD: I will have the Captain contact then down on the planet and
tell them to prepare for your return.

[Transporter room]

(O'Brien at the controls, of course) 
WORF: There are no life signs in the immediate area. 
RIKER: All right, stay sharp. We may have to get out of there in a
hurry. Set phasers on stun. Energise.

[Hilltop]

WORF: The area is clear, Commander. 
DATA: (translating Riva) Put the table over there. 
RIKER: Engineering, this is Commander Riker. 
LAFORGE [OC]: Go ahead, sir. 
RIKER: You can beam the table and torches down now. 
DATA: Light the torches to let them know that I am back. 
RIKER: It may be quite a while before the emissaries arrive. They'll be
more cautious after the last incident. 
DATA: You may leave whenever you choose. I will send out a message when
I am ready to go. 
RIKER: Deanna, I don't understand what he's going to do. How can he
mediate without his interpreters? He won't even be able to talk to
them. 
TROI: Riva is going to teach them sign language. 
DATA: Yes, it is turning a disadvantage into an advantage. Learning
sign will be a part of their process of learning how to live together
in peace. 
TROI: While they are learning how to communicate with Riva, they'll be
learning how to communicate with each other. 
DATA: And that is the first and most important aspect of any
relationship. Counsellor, it took me only moments to learn sign
language. It will take them months. 
TROI: Time well spent. 
DATA: These people have been fighting all of their lives. They know
only hatred, suspicion, and fear. Even with my
Chorus, I could not have changed their attitudes in a day. We have a
chance. They want the talks to be successful. 
RIKER: I'm still not comfortable leaving you here alone. 
DATA: Thank you for your concern. I will be fine. (to Troi) And thank
you, for everything. 
RIKER: Enterprise, four to beam up. Good luck. 
(They beam up, and Riva stands in front of the triangular table, to
wait.)

First Officer's log, Stardate 42479.3. We leave the
Solais system confident that Riva will help the Solari achieve a
lasting peace. 
[Bridge]

WESLEY: Coordinates set, Commander.
RIKER: Take us out of orbit.

