TROI WOMAN SCHOLAR WORF PICARD RIKER ADONIS CHORUS
ancestors ve mediator ramatis glass uss gene balance ramble

[Room]

(They arrive in a marbled room, and walk forward to
an area with a slightly raised
dais in front of a stained glass window. There is no one there.)

[Bridge]

RIKER: Captain, this is the Enterprise. 
[Room]

PICARD: We've arrived safely, Number One, but so
far we've been ignored. I'll keep you informed. 
[Bridge]

RIKER: I would appreciate it. 
[Room]

TROI: Captain. 
WORF: Sir. 
(A well build man with red hair and beard has entered. He stops in
front of each of them in turn. Please note this actor really is deaf.) 
TROI: Riva. 
(He goes and stands on his dais. Picard steps forward but is gestured
to stop. Two men and a woman in white enter and stand in front of Riva)

WOMAN: Please, come closer. Before I start, is there anything you need?
Food, refreshments? 
PICARD: Thank you, no. 
SCHOLAR: (the man in the hat) Then proceed. 
PICARD: Greetings from the United Federation of Planets. I am Captain
Jean Luc Picard, of the USS Enterprise. This is Counsellor Troi.
Lieutenant Worf. 
ADONIS: Greetings. 
SCHOLAR: Welcome to Ramatis. 
WOMAN: I have been expecting you. 
ADONIS: You are empathic. 
TROI: Yes. 
(Riva walks towards Troi) 
ADONIS: Then although you already know my feelings toward you, allow me
to put them into words. I am looking forward to this journey, now more
than ever, because it gives me the chance to be in your company. 
TROI: I am flattered. I too am look forward to learning more about you.

(Riva goes back to his dais) 
PICARD: There are aspects to Riva of which we have not been informed. 
WOMAN: Precisely. Our way of communicating has developed over the
centuries and its one that I find quite harmonious. 
PICARD: Then Riva the mediator 
WOMAN: Is deaf. 
PICARD: Deaf? 
WOMAN: Born, and hope to die. 
PICARD: And the three of you speak for him? 
CHORUS: Yes. 
SCHOLAR: We serve as translators. We convey not only his thoughts, but
his emotional intent as well. I am the Scholar. I represent the
intellect, and speak in matters of judgement, philosophy, logic. Also,
I am the dreamer, the part that longs to see the beauty beyond the
truth which is always the first duty of art. I am the poet who 
ADONIS: Artists, they tend to ramble, neglect the moment. I am passion,
the libido. I am the anarchy of lust, the romantic and the lover. I am
also the warrior, the perfect line which never wavers. 
WOMAN: I am that which binds all the others together. I am harmony,
wisdom, balance. 
PICARD: Remarkable. And so these 
(Riva steps forward, angry) 
SCHOLAR: Speak to me! 
PICARD: What? 
SCHOLAR: Speak directly to me. 
PICARD: The uniqueness of this presentation provoked this inadvertent
breach in protocol. No insult was intended. 
SCHOLAR: Then none is perceived. 
PICARD: I'm curious about how this rare form of communication came
about. 
WOMAN: The gene for hearing is not present in my planet's ruling line. 
SCHOLAR: Not that unusual, indeed it is similar to the House of Hanover
of your planet Earth, all who had haemophilia. Or the leaders of
Fendaus Five, who were without limbs. 
WOMAN: Many of the galaxy's greatest contributors have been similarly
special. 
SCHOLAR: My Chorus is so attuned, they can hear my thoughts and
translate to you. It is a relationship which goes back for centuries.
Their ancestors provided the same service to my ancestors. 
TROI: Your method of communication is most elegant and quite beautiful.

ADONIS: It takes a fine mind to realise that, Counsellor Troi. 
TROI: This part of you doesn't speak very often. 
ADONIS: Only when the spirit moves me. 
PICARD: Riva, if you are ready, the situation at Solais Five is very
critical. We should not delay. 
SCHOLAR: Very well. 
WORF: With your permission, Captain. 
PICARD: Make it so, Mister Worf. 
WORF: Enterprise, this is the away team. Seven to beam up.

