TROI WORF KINGSLEY [on viewscreen] PICARD RIKER PULASKI WESLEY KINGSLEY
acute author styrolite supply prognosis child situation jean worth

[Bridge]

WESLEY: We're approaching Gagarin Four, Captain. 
PICARD: Standard orbit, Mister Crusher. 
WESLEY: Aye, sir. 
PICARD: Hailing frequencies. 
WORF: Open. 
PICARD: Darwin Station, this is Captain Jean-Luc Picard of the USS
Enterprise. 
(A middle aged woman comes on the viewscreen. She seems harassed) 
KINGSLEY [on viewscreen]: Enterprise, this is Darwin Station. I'm
Doctor Kingsley. We've just declared a medical emergency here. We need
your help. 
PULASKI: Doctor Kingsley, what is the nature of your emergency? 
KINGSLEY [on viewscreen]: To whom am I speaking, please? 
PULASKI: I'm Doctor Pulaski, Chief Medical Officer. 
KINGSLEY [on viewscreen]: Katherine Pulaski, author of Linear Models of
Viral Propagation? 
PULASKI: That was a long time ago. 
KINGSLEY [on viewscreen]: But still the standard. I can't think of
anyone I'd rather be dealing with. Doctor, we're experiencing the rapid
onset of geriatric phenomena. The first symptom is sudden, acute
arthritic inflammation. Then the aging process accelerates. 
PULASKI: The Lantree. 
KINGSLEY [on viewscreen]: Doctor Pulaski, I celebrated my thirty fifth
birthday a week ago. 
PULASKI: Doctor, we understand that Darwin Station is involved in
genetic research. Is there a possible connection? 
KINGSLEY [on viewscreen]: Our research here is limited to human
genetics. I can assure you we're not dealing with something that got
away from us. We believe that we were infected by a supply ship that
was here three days ago. 
PICARD: Doctor, if you're speaking of the Lantree, we encountered it a
few hours ago. All the crew members were dead. 
KINGSLEY: Which would seem to confirm our suspicion. Were you able to
establish a pathology, Doctor? 
PICARD: Doctor, did you hear what I said? All the twenty six men and
women aboard that ship were dead. 
KINGSLEY: I heard you, Captain, and the prognosis is alarming, but my
immediate concern is our children. 
PULASKI: Children? 
KINGSLEY: They represent years of advanced genetic research. You must
evacuate them as soon as possible. 
PICARD: I'm sorry, but under the circumstances, until we know what's
going on I'm imposing a full quarantine on Darwin Station. 
KINGSLEY: But the children have been in protective isolation since this
was detected. They show no symptoms. You cannot leave them here to die!

PICARD: Doctor, our options in a quarantine situation are extremely
limited. We are going to consider the possibilities. I suggest you do
the same. 
[Observation lounge]

WORF: I recommend against contact, Captain. 
PICARD: Number One? 
RIKER: I have to agree, sir. I wish there was something we could do,
but the risk is too great. 
PICARD: Doctor? 
PULASKI: If the children are free of disease, as Doctor Kingsley said,
they should be evacuated. I would like to bring one of them aboard
within a force field for a complete examination. 
PICARD: Counsellor, do you sense anything? 
TROI: Doctor Kingsley sincerely believes the children are not a threat,
but she's not telling us the whole truth. I recommend caution. 
PICARD: We have only Doctor Kingsley's assurance that these children
are not infected, whereas we have seen the results of this disease
first hand. In a case like this, I think we should err on the side of
caution.
PULASKI: All right. We could beam up one child in styrolite in
suspended animation. That way I could scan for possible infection
without any danger to ourselves or to the child. 
RIKER: But we don't know what we're looking for. 
PULASKI: Exactly. And we won't know until we begin gathering data.
Captain, that's worth some risk. 
PICARD: There's always risk, Doctor. Proceed with the examination, but
I shall require positive proof that these children are harmless before
I place any of my crew in jeopardy.

