TROI OBRIEN CREWMAN WORF PICARD PULASKI KINGSLEY DATA TAGGERT

[Darwin Station Lab]

KINGSLEY: Oh, Doctor Pulaski. I can only tell you
how much I regret the burden we've imposed on you. On both of you. 
PULASKI: Commander Data is an android, Doctor. He is unaffected. As for
me, I chose this. I was convinced the children were safe. 
KINGSLEY: I still can't believe you were infected by one of our
children. 
DATA: The evidence is fairly conclusive. 
KINGSLEY: You don't understand. They were designed to resist disease. 
PULASKI: I think it's time we talked about that. 
KINGSLEY: Let me show you something. 
(They go up some steps to an observation window on the Isolation lab.
Seven 'children' are playing games) 
KINGSLEY: Our ultimate achievement. The oldest is twelve, and all are
telekinetic. Watch. 
(A chess piece glides to an upper level of the three-d board) 
PULASKI: Genetically engineered? 
KINGSLEY: Not engineered, created. Perfect in every way. Their body
structure, their musculature, their minds. 
PULASKI: You were telling me about their immune system. 
KINGSLEY: That was our masterpiece. We gave these children an
aggressive immunity. The rest of us were infected by the supply ship,
but they were protected. 
DATA: The Lantree logs indicated that only one crewman had any illness
prior to arrival here. The First Officer had a mild case of Thelusian
flu. 
KINGSLEY: Yes, he was one of the crewmen who came in direct contact
with us. 
PULASKI: The Thelusian flu would have little effect on you, but tell
me, how would they react? 
KINGSLEY: Their immune system would release an active antibody that
would attack the virus. 
PULASKI: Even at a distance? 
KINGSLEY: Their immune systems don't wait for a disease to attack the
body. It would seek out an airborne virus and destroy it. 
PULASKI: Destroy it? How, exactly? 
KINGSLEY: The antibody would adapt itself to alter the genetic code of
the virus. 
PULASKI: Commander, I want an analysis of the interaction between the
Thelusian flu and the children. 
DATA: On a molecular genetic level? 
KINGSLEY: We don't have time for that. Genetic analysis could take
months. 
PULASKI: Not necessarily. Commander Data has a way with computers. 
[Ready room]

TAGGERT [on monitor]: Sorry, Picard. We erased
Doctor Pulaski's transporter pattern right after she
transferred. Not that she used the transporter much, she preferred
using the shuttlecraft. I would have given her a shuttle if it would
have kept her here. 
PICARD: Tell me, Taggert, if she served you as well as you say, why did
you let her go? 
TAGGERT [on monitor]: I see you haven't run into her stubborn streak
yet. As soon as she found out about an opening on the Enterprise, she
put in a request for transfer. Knew your service record backward and
forward. Apparently she's been an admirer of yours for some time. 
PICARD: Extraordinary.

[Darwin Station lab]

PULASKI: Commander, what have you got? 
DATA: The answer, I believe, Doctor. The Lantree was not the source of
the disease, but it was the trigger. 
KINGSLEY: Trigger? 
DATA: The Lantree's First Officer exposed your children to Thelusian
flu for the first time. Their active immune systems set out to attack
the virus, and once it was triggered, it kept going. The antibody
created an unexpected side-effect. It alters the genetic make-up of
normal humans. This is a comparison of the normal and altered DNA.
These are the two molecules that have been transposed. 
PULASKI: And since our DNA is self replicating, the process 
DATA: Is irreversible. 
PULASKI: Judging from what happened on the Lantree, anyone is a carrier
once they're infected. 
[Bridge]

PICARD: Have you made any progress, Doctor? 
PULASKI [on viewscreen]: I'm afraid so, Captain. The children don't
carry the disease, they are the cause. 
PICARD: What do you mean? 
PULASKI [on viewscreen]: Their advanced immune system has created an
antibody that changes normal DNA. The altered genes are the ones that
control aging. 
PICARD: Then why did it attack you more quickly than Doctor Kingsley? 
PULASKI [on viewscreen]: The enclosed environment of the shuttlecraft
concentrated my exposure. The Lantree's First Officer carried the
antibody onto his ship. It had the same effect on his crew. 
PICARD: Right, what's the next step? 
PULASKI [on viewscreen]: The children will survive, but the rest of us
are just about out of time. 
PICARD: Doctor, I want you back aboard this ship. We'll beam you up in
suspended animation like the boy. That will give us more time. 
PULASKI [on viewscreen]: Captain, I appreciate what you're trying to
do, but I got into this by leaping before I looked, and I won't allow
you to make the same mistake. Chief Medical Officer's log. This will be
my final report to the Enterprise. Just as changes in evolution are
known to be caused by changes in the environment, we now know the
process also works in reverse. An attempt to control human evolution
has resulted in a new species that's lethal to its predecessors. The
children will be condemned to live out their lives in isolation.
Quarantine of the Darwin Station must be maintained for ever. 
[Darwin Station lab]

(By now Pulaski is white-haired and wrinkled) 
DATA: I am sorry I could not be more helpful, Doctor Pulaski. 
PULASKI: You did everything you could, Commander. As androids go,
you're in a class by yourself. 
DATA: Doctor 
PULASKI: Please, give my best to the Captain. 
DATA: Enterprise. Commander Data ready to beam aboard.

[Bridge]

TROI: Captain, Kate knew what she was doing. 
PICARD: I wish I could be certain that we'd tried everything.
WORF: Commander Data is ready to come aboard, sir. 
PICARD: You have the Bridge, Number One. 
[Transporter room]

CREWMAN: No life forms present. 
O'BRIEN: You may step down, sir. 
PICARD: Data, tell me if. It's good to see you again. 
DATA: Thank you, sir. 
PICARD: Now, quickly. If the changes in Doctor Pulaski's DNA were
reversed, would it be possible 
DATA: It is not reversible, sir. The subtle molecular transposition of 
PICARD: Yes, yes, yes. But say if it were undone, would she be normal
again? 
DATA: As normal as ever, sir. 
PICARD: You said that the transporter could be modified to filter out
the changes in Doctor Pulaski? 
O'BRIEN: Yes, sir, but we were unable to locate her trace pattern. 
PICARD: Well, what if we used a sample of her DNA, say from a blood
test taken before she was exposed to the disease? Could that be used to
filter out the genetic changes? 
O'BRIEN: Well, I'd have to get into the biofilter bus to patch in a
molecular matrix reader. That's no problem. But the waveform modulator
will be overloaded without the regeneration limiter in the first stage
circuit. 
DATA: Interesting. However, theoretically, 
PICARD: Data. 
DATA: Yes, sir. 
PICARD: Can you do the modifications? 
O'BRIEN: I think so, sir. 
PICARD: Then make it so. 
O'BRIEN: You heard what he said. Let's get those panels off. 
