PICARD [OC] WESLEY RIKER PICARD MENDON
beneficial said positive make lights particular new minutes starbase

[Transporter room]

(Four new science specialists are beamed aboard) 
RIKER: Welcome aboard the Enterprise. I'm Commander William Riker, your
First Officer. Those of you who are here as replacements will step
outside follow Lieutenant Lewis. He will assign you to your crew
quarters. (to the Benzite) Ensign, you're here on the exchange
programme. If you'll just follow Mister Crusher. 
WESLEY: Mordoc, what are you doing here? You couldn't have graduated
from the Academy already. 
MENDON: I am not Mordoc. I am Mendon. Ensign Mendon from the planet
Benzar. 
WESLEY: Sorry. It's a friend of mine. You look just like him. 
MENDON: We are from the same geostructure. Naturally we look alike. 
WESLEY: How do you tell each other apart? 
MENDON: We just do. 
RIKER: It's nice to have you here, Ensign. There will be a briefing and
indoctrination session in fifteen minutes. 
MENDON: I want to tell you how happy I am to be assigned to the
Enterprise. It wasn't just luck. I requested it. I know I can be of
great help to the ship. 
RIKER: Yes, of course. If you'll just follow Mister Crusher. 
MENDON: Yes, sir. 
PICARD [OC]: Commander Riker, report to the Phaser Range, please 
RIKER: On the way.

[Phaser range]

(Target practice involves shooting at moving
coloured lights) 
PICARD: I was wondering if you had any feelings about the Officer
Exchange Programme initiated by Starfleet Command. 
RIKER: Just positive ones, sir. Actually, I just welcomed Ensign Mendon
on board. He certainly seems eager to please. 
PICARD: Well, that's a Benzite trait. It's been suggested that an
officer from the Enterprise might participate in the programme. 
RIKER: That's probably a good idea. 
PICARD: Well, there is a Klingon vessel in the area. 
RIKER: I don't recall hearing of a Federation officer serving ever on a
Klingon vessel. 
PICARD: No, no, neither have I. 
RIKER: It might prove to be beneficial. 
PICARD: Having Worf on board certainly has been. 
RIKER: Yes, sir. Who did you intend to send, sir? 
PICARD: I thought of asking for a volunteer. 
RIKER: I might be interested, sir. 
PICARD: (missing a target) Damn. Sorry, Number One, what was that? 
RIKER: I said I wouldn't mind the assignment, sir. 
PICARD: Any particular reason? 
RIKER: Because nobody's ever done it before. 
PICARD: I'll notify Starbase of your acceptance They'll contact the
Klingon vessel, make the arrangements.

Captain's log, stardate 42506.5. We have departed
from Starbase one seven nine and are headed for a rendezvous with the
Klingon vessel, Pagh. I have informed the staff of Commander Riker's
temporary assignment.

