RIKER WORF PICARD KLAG MENDON DATA KARGAN
said ve capable magnification second supposed starship battle stain

[Pagh Bridge]

(The Bridge is also dimly lit with red light.
Support struts form obstacles) 
RIKER: Commander William Riker of the Starship Enterprise. 
KARGAN: That is incorrect. 
RIKER: I don't understand. 
KARGAN: You are Commander William Riker, First Officer of the Klingon
cruiser, the Pagh. Or do you intend to disobey Federation orders? 
RIKER: I have no such intention, sir. 
KARGAN: Exactly where are your loyalties, Commander? 
RIKER: I'm afraid I still don't understand, sir. 
KARGAN: This ship is equipped with our best weapons and our finest
warriors. Although we are on a peaceful mission, we are ready to go
into battle instantly. I know I can count on every Klingon warrior in
this crew to serve and die in that battle. So I ask you again,
Commander Riker. Where are your loyalties? 
RIKER: I have been assigned to serve this ship and to obey your orders.
And I will do exactly that. 
KARGAN: Will you take an oath to that effect? 
RIKER: I just did. 
KLAG: (in Klingon) Do not believe him! He lies! 
KARGAN: (in Klingon) Speak in their language. This is your Second
Officer, Lieutenant Klag. 
RIKER: Is there something you wanted to say to me, Lieutenant? 
KLAG: Yes sir. I do not believe you. 
RIKER: Then I take it you challenge my authority over you. 
KLAG: Correct. 
RIKER: And your position on this, Captain? 
KARGAN: I would say it your first command decision. 
(Riker looks around and thumps Klag in the stomach before throwing him
on the floor, then kicking him down before he can get up again, and
finally ramming his head into a computer panel. Lots of sparks. Kargan
laughs)
RIKER: My oath is between Captain Kargan and myself. Your only concern
is with how you obey my orders. Or do you prefer the rank of prisoner
to that of Lieutenant? 
KLAG: I will take your orders. 
KARGAN: And you, Commander Riker, will obey my orders. 
RIKER: Of course, Captain Kargan.

[Bridge]

WORF: Sir, automatic scan has registered an unknown
substance on the aft quarter of the exterior skin of the dorsal
section. 
PICARD: Target that location and define. 
WORF: Aye, sir. 
MENDON: I've located it sir. The dorsal of the Engineering section. 
DATA: Viewscreen on. Focus on area. Magnification factor ten. Increase
magnification to fifty. 
(It looks like a rust stain) 
PICARD: Analyse. 
DATA: The substance appears to be a rare form of subatomic bacteria,
capable of doubling itself in size every fifteen minutes. It seems to
be reacting with two of the compounds present in the Enterprise
structure. 
PICARD: Origin. 
MENDON: Captain. I noticed it when I did an intensive scan of the Pagh.
The Klingon ship. 
PICARD: And whom did you inform? 
MENDON: No one. I have not yet completed my full analysis. 
WORF: You are supposed to report whatever is out of the ordinary. 
PICARD: And I think that falls into this category. 
MENDON: But sir, as I said, I have not yet completed my full analysis.
It would be improper to report it until then. 
DATA: How did you come to that decision? 
MENDON: It is a Benzite regulation. No officer on the deck of one of
our ships would report an occurrence like this until he had a full
analysis and a resolution. I have simply followed proper procedures. 
PICARD: It is our procedure, Ensign, to notify command of any
possibility of danger to the ship. The decision is not yours. Do you
understand? 
MENDON: Yes, sir. 
PICARD: Now, you will continue with your analysis and determine the
danger, not only to our ship, but the Klingon vessel also. 
MENDON: Yes, Captain. That will take a couple of hours. 
PICARD: Use whatever resources are necessary. It appears we may have
encountered a new life form. I want to know everything about it as
quickly as possible. Commander Data, supervise. 
DATA: Aye, sir. 
(Picard leaves) 
WORF: And then I will instruct you in Enterprise etiquette.

First Officer's personal log. I have aboard the
Pagh a short time, but long enough to be impressed with the abilities
and
single-mindedness of the Klingons. 
