RIKER TACTICS WORF PICARD MENDON KARGAN

[Pagh Bridge]

TACTICS: The Enterprise has slowed to impulse speed
and is making an intensive sweep. 
KARGAN: Hold your position. Let them come to us. 
RIKER: They may be here to help you. Don't be a fool! 
KARGAN: Do not forget my rank. 
RIKER: I haven't. I am simply trying to help you understand. 
KARGAN: I understand fully. Now, you understand. I am still Captain of
this vessel and you are still crew and sworn to obey me. You gave me
your oath. 
RIKER: Yes, sir, I did. 
KARGAN: Then fulfill that oath and serve this ship as you swore to.
Tell me of the surest method of attack against the Enterprise. 
RIKER: I won't. 
KARGAN: You must. It is a matter of honour and loyalty to your oath. 
RIKER: I will not surrender the secrets of the Enterprise to you. 
KARGAN: If your word is no good, then how can we ever trust Starfleet? 
RIKER: I will not break any vow I have taken in the past. I have also
taken an oath a loyalty to your ship. I will not break that. 
KARGAN: They are in conflict! 
RIKER: No, sir, they are not! I will obey your orders. I will serve
this ship as First Officer, and in an attack against the Enterprise I
will die along with this crew. But I will not break my oath of loyalty
to Starfleet. 
KARGAN: If you had told those secrets about the Enterprise, I would
have labeled
you a traitor and killed you where you stood. But instead you will die
with us. You'll die like a Klingon. 
[Bridge]

MENDON: Sir, I have something to report to you
immediately. 
PICARD: Yes, go ahead, Ensign. 
MENDON: I have managed to isolate the organisms on our hull. They are a
sub-micron form capable of breaking nuclear bonds in the tritanium
plating. 
PICARD: But can they be removed from the hull? 
MENDON: Yes. They are controllable and can be removed from the hulls of
both ships by using a tunnelling neutrino beam. 
PICARD: Thank you, Ensign. Well done. Initiate that procedure .
Lieutenant, add that information to hailing messages. 
WORF: Aye, sir. 
