RIKER TACTICS KLAG WESLEY MENDON KARGAN
ll failed growth understand adapt realise half battle arm

[Bridge]

WESLEY: You're making some progress. You've
eliminated half the possibilities already. 
MENDON: Thank you, but I seem to have become efficient a little later
than was needed. It was my responsibility to learn and adapt to the
Enterprise's regulations, and I didn't do that. 
WESLEY: Not really. You just made an error. Captain Picard may not like
them, but he knows they turn up from time to time. 
MENDON: I failed, I had an opportunity to show the Captain my superior
capabilities and I failed. I can never recover from that. 
WESLEY: Mendon, it was a mistake. You didn't put the organism on the
hull, you discovered it. You were trying to analyze it and messed up on
protocol a little. 
MENDON: I realise you're trying to be nice to me, and I appreciate it.
What I don't understand is why. 
WESLEY: Why not? I thought you could use a friend. 
MENDON: Thank you. I only hope I can learn your ways before I mess up
again. I imagine my methods must seem foolish to you. 
WESLEY: They're different. But that's what this exchange programme is
all about. You learn the way we do things and take that information
back to your command. It's up to them to decide which is better. 
MENDON: You're right. I'll do it your way. I'll work even harder than I
did before, and I'll succeed brilliantly.

[Pagh Bridge]

(The hole in the hull is a lot bigger) 
KARGAN: What is the status? 
TACTICS: Unchanged. The rate of increase continues. 
KARGAN: Commander Riker, check the organism growth with Engineering. 
(Riker leaves) 
KARGAN: Keep him under scrutiny. 
KLAG: Captain, I'm not convinced Riker knew of any plot against us. If
he did, why would he have come on board? 
KARGAN: Because he was ordered to. 
KLAG: To die? 
KARGAN: It's the expectation of any officer to be ordered to die at any
time. 
KLAG: For a Klingon perhaps, but Riker's people do not volunteer for
death so easily. He may be a spy, but he's no coward. 
KARGAN: That only proves that he is intelligent. And you might not be
as strong as you used to be. 
TACTICS: Captain, I've picked up the Enterprise. 
KARGAN: So soon? 
TACTICS: The Enterprise is on an intercept course with us. 
(Riker enters) 
KARGAN: You almost had me believing this was a misunderstanding. 
RIKER: But? 
KARGAN: The Enterprise has changed course and is following us. Why? 
RIKER: Ask them. 
KARGAN: The reason is obvious. Their intent is clear. How long before
we make contact? 
TACTICS: Less than fifteen minutes, sir. 
KARGAN: Put the ship on full battle alert. Arm all photon torpedoes.
Let them charge into their destruction.

