PICARD RIKER WORF
exchange ll successfully actually reason moving attrition assisted starbase

[Phaser range]

(Target practice involves shooting at moving
coloured lights) 
PICARD: I was wondering if you had any feelings about the Officer
Exchange Programme initiated by Starfleet Command. 
RIKER: Just positive ones, sir. Actually, I just welcomed Ensign Mendon
on board. He certainly seems eager to please. 
PICARD: Well, that's a Benzite trait. It's been suggested that an
officer from the Enterprise might participate in the programme. 
RIKER: That's probably a good idea. 
PICARD: Well, there is a Klingon vessel in the area. 
RIKER: I don't recall hearing of a Federation officer serving ever on a
Klingon vessel. 
PICARD: No, no, neither have I. 
RIKER: It might prove to be beneficial. 
PICARD: Having Worf on board certainly has been. 
RIKER: Yes, sir. Who did you intend to send, sir? 
PICARD: I thought of asking for a volunteer. 
RIKER: I might be interested, sir. 
PICARD: (missing a target) Damn. Sorry, Number One, what was that? 
RIKER: I said I wouldn't mind the assignment, sir. 
PICARD: Any particular reason? 
RIKER: Because nobody's ever done it before. 
PICARD: I'll notify Starbase of your acceptance They'll contact the
Klingon vessel, make the arrangements.

Captain's log, stardate 42506.5. We have departed
from Starbase one seven nine and are headed for a rendezvous with the
Klingon vessel, Pagh. I have informed the staff of Commander Riker's
temporary assignment.

[Corridor]

WORF: I have studied and know everything about my
heritage. 
RIKER: Then you're just the person I need to talk to, clear something
up. It's my understanding that one of the duties of the First Officer
of a Klingon ship is to assassinate his Captain? 
WORF: Yes, sir. 
RIKER: Wouldn't that bring about chaos? 
WORF: Of course not. When and if the Captain becomes weak and unable to
perform, it is expected that his honourable retirement should be
assisted by his First. Your Second Officer will assassinate you for the
same reasons. 
RIKER: The method of attrition must take a little getting used to. 
WORF: The Klingon system has operated successfully for centuries. 
RIKER: It is different. 
WORF: Many things will be different.

