RIKER TACTICS WESLEY KLAG MENDON KARGAN

[Pagh Bridge]

KARGAN: Tell me, Commander Riker, what do you make
of this? 
(The hole in their hull is displayed on the viewscreen) 
RIKER: I felt no collision. Were we hit by a small meteor? 
KARGAN: No. No collision. 
RIKER: Corrosion, then? 
KARGAN: No, not corrosion. 
RIKER: Science Station, analyse. 
KARGAN: We already have, and fortunately the cavity opened onto a
section that could withstand the change in pressure. 
RIKER: Then what is it? 
KLAG: A space organism eating away at our hull. 
RIKER: What are you talking about? What is it? I mean, you must have
some way to repair it. 
KARGAN: I'm afraid not. 
KLAG: Our estimate is that in less than eight hours we will have lost
too much of our shell to remain intact. 
KARGAN: The only vessel we've had contact with recently is the
Enterprise. 
RIKER: There was no direct contact with the Enterprise. 
KARGAN: Tactics Officer, report to Commander Riker. 
TACTICS: The Enterprise did conduct an extensive scan of this vessel. 
RIKER: That's normal procedure. 
KARGAN: What type of beam did the Enterprise use to cause this damage
in our hull? 
RIKER: None. Why would they do that? We're allies. 
TACTICS: But my logs indicate that the Enterprise directed an intense
scanning beam at this specific area for a duration of two minutes. 
KARGAN: Explain that. 
RIKER: I can't. 
TACTICS: It could be a weapon. 
RIKER: It's no weapon. The Enterprise has no reason to do that,
especially with me on board. It makes no sense. Why? 
KARGAN: Why is no longer important. What is important is our response
to this attack. Engage cloaking device. Change course to intercept the
Enterprise. 
RIKER: What do you intend to do, Captain? 
KARGAN: Intend? There is only one response. I intend to attack the
Enterprise and destroy it.

[Bridge]

WESLEY: You're making some progress. You've
eliminated half the possibilities already. 
MENDON: Thank you, but I seem to have become efficient a little later
than was needed. It was my responsibility to learn and adapt to the
Enterprise's regulations, and I didn't do that. 
WESLEY: Not really. You just made an error. Captain Picard may not like
them, but he knows they turn up from time to time. 
MENDON: I failed, I had an opportunity to show the Captain my superior
capabilities and I failed. I can never recover from that. 
WESLEY: Mendon, it was a mistake. You didn't put the organism on the
hull, you discovered it. You were trying to analyze it and messed up on
protocol a little. 
MENDON: I realise you're trying to be nice to me, and I appreciate it.
What I don't understand is why. 
WESLEY: Why not? I thought you could use a friend. 
MENDON: Thank you. I only hope I can learn your ways before I mess up
again. I imagine my methods must seem foolish to you. 
WESLEY: They're different. But that's what this exchange programme is
all about. You learn the way we do things and take that information
back to your command. It's up to them to decide which is better. 
MENDON: You're right. I'll do it your way. I'll work even harder than I
did before, and I'll succeed brilliantly.

