RIKER CREWMAN PICARD PULASKI WESLEY MENDON

[Bridge]

(Mendon leaves his aft station and has a look
around) 
CREWMAN: (at Worf's station) Can I help you, sir? 
MENDON: That's a wonderful method of maintaining a constant control
factor over defensive shields, but I'm sure there's a way to improve
response time. Sorry. Didn't mean to interrupt you. Just thought I
could be of some help. However, I am correct in what I said. 
(He moves on down to the helm and ops stations) 
MENDON: That is superb designing. Absolutely first rate. 
WESLEY: Yes, it is. Would you care to be more specific? 
MENDON: The input sampling. It's simple yet efficient enough. Of course
a minor change of the helm readout would be much more helpful in
emergency situations. 
WESLEY: We've never had any problems with it. Have you seen it work? 
MENDON: Not in a practical exercise, but in theory, my theory, it would
be more than a marginal improvement. I'll have to mention this to the
Captain. He is open to some astute observations, isn't he? 
WESLEY: I've never known the Captain not to listen to one of his
officers. 
MENDON: Outstanding. Soon we'll get things running perfectly.

[Ten Forward]

(Riker has plates and bowls of alien protein on his
table. You expect some of it to get up and walk away) 
PULASKI: What is that? 
RIKER: It's a Klingon delicacy. Pipius claw. This is heart of targ.
This, of course, is gagh. 
PULASKI: Gagh? 
RIKER: Yes, serpent worms. Would you like some? 
PULASKI: No, thanks. I've never heard of a Klingon starving to death on
his own vessels, but you might. 
RIKER: Not if I weaken first. 
PULASKI: I know all about that. Their beliefs are rather brutal, but
usually what kills us kills them. 
RIKER: That's certainly good to know. Would you like something to
drink? 
PULASKI: I'm abstaining in honour of your last hour on board. 
RIKER: Your sacrifice will not go unnoticed. 
PICARD: Well, I'm familiar with the practice of the feast before the
transfer. I've done it dozens of times. However, I usually made more
palatable choices. 
RIKER: These are the more palatable choices. 
(Riker offers Picard a jug of something rather solid-looking with
tentacles) 
PICARD: Thank you. We know so little about them. There really is so
much to learn. This is a great opportunity. I envy you, Mister Riker. 
(Another tray of dishes arrives, and Riker tucks in while Picard leans
back and Pulaski wrinkles her nose) 
