RIKER PHILLIPA LAFORGE WORF PICARD PULASKI WESLEY DATA

[Ten forward]

(Data is very neatly undoing the wrapping of a
present) 
WESLEY: Data, you're supposed to rip the wrapping off. 
DATA: With the application of a little care, Wes, the paper can be
utilised again. 
WESLEY: Data, you're missing the point. 
(Now that he has carefully removed it, Data rips the paper in half,
then reads the book title) 
DATA: The Dream of the Fire, by K'Ratak. Thank you, Worf. 
WORF: It was in the hands of the Klingons that the novel attained its
full stature. 
PULASKI: I couldn't disagree more. We'll save that argument for another
day. DATA: Excuse me, please. 
(Data goes over to Geordi, who is sitting on his own) 
DATA: Is something wrong? 
LAFORGE: Of course there is. You're going away. 
DATA: No one regrets that necessity more than myself. You do understand
my reasons? 
LAFORGE: Sure, I understand. I just don't like your being forced out.
It's not fair. 
DATA: As Doctor Pulaski would at this juncture, no doubt, remind us,
life is rarely fair. 
LAFORGE: Sorry, that just doesn't make it any better. 
DATA: I shall miss you, Geordi. 
LAFORGE: Yeah. Me too. Take care of yourself, Data. 
[JAG office]

(Picard and Riker are present to hear the outcome
of the research into Data's status) 
PHILLIPA: I have completed my research, based on the Acts of Cumberland
passed in the early twenty first century. Data is the property of
Starfleet. He cannot resign and he cannot refuse to cooperate with
Commander Maddox. 
PICARD: What if I challenge this ruling? 
PHILLIPA: Then I shall be required to hold a hearing. 
PICARD: Then I so challenge. Convene your hearing. 
PHILLIPA: Captain, that would be exceedingly difficult. This is a new
base. I have no staff. 
PICARD: But surely, Captain, you have regulations to take care of such
an eventuality. 
PHILLIPA: There are. I can use serving officers as legal counsel. You
as the senior officer would defend. 
PICARD: Very good. 
PHILLIPA: And the unenviable task of prosecuting this case would fall
on you, Commander, as the next most senior officer of the defendant's
ship. 
RIKER: I can't. I won't. Data's my comrade. We have served together. I
not only respect him, I consider him my friend. 
PHILLIPA: When people of good conscience have an honest dispute, we
must still sometimes resort to this kind of adversarial system. 
RIKER: You just want me to prove that Data is a mere machine. I can't
do that because I don't believe it. I happen to know better. So I'm
neither qualified nor willing. You're going to have to find someone
else. 
PHILLIPA: Then I will rule summarily based upon my findings. Data is a
toaster. Have him report to Commander Maddox immediately for
experimental refit. 
RIKER: I see. I have no choice but to agree. 
PHILLIPA: Good. And I expect you to do your duty in that courtroom. If
I find for one minute that you are not doing your best, I will end this
then and there. 
PICARD: You don't have to remind us of our duty. You just remember
yours. 
PHILLIPA: I have never forgotten it. Not then, and certainly not now.

