RIKER PHILLIPA PICARD GUINAN COMPUTER MADDOX DATA
deny portraits reach liberty race disposable curiosity ready machines

[Ten forward]

(There is only one customer present, sitting at the
bar) 
GUINAN: Do you mean his argument was that good? 
PICARD: Riker's presentation was devastating. He almost convinced me. 
GUINAN: You've got the harder argument. By his own admission, Data is a
machine. 
PICARD: That's true. 
GUINAN: You're worried about what's going to happen to him? 
PICARD: I've had to send people on far more dangerous missions. 
GUINAN: Then this should work out fine. Maddox could get lucky and
create a whole army of Datas, all very valuable. 
PICARD: Oh, yes. No doubt. 
GUINAN: He's proved his value to you. 
PICARD: In ways that I cannot even begin to calculate. 
GUINAN: And now he's about to be ruled the property of Starfleet. That
should increase his value. 
PICARD: In what way? 
GUINAN: Well, consider that in the history of many worlds there have
always been disposable creatures. They do the dirty work. They do the
work that no one else wants to do because it's too difficult, or to
hazardous. And an army of Datas, all disposable, you don't have to
think about their welfare, you don't think about how they feel. Whole
generations of disposable people. 
PICARD: You're talking about slavery. 
GUINAN: I think that's a little harsh. 
PICARD: I don't think that's a little harsh. I think that's the truth.
But that's a truth we have obscured
behind a comfortable, easy euphemism. Property. But that's not the
issue at all, is it?

[Courtroom]

PICARD: Commander Riker has dramatically
demonstrated to this court that Lieutenant Commander Data is a machine.
Do we deny that? No. Because it is not relevant. We too are machines,
just machines of a different type. Commander Riker
has also reminded us that Lieutenant Commander Data was created by a
human. Do we deny that? No. Again it is not relevant. Children are
created from the building blocks of their parents' DNA. Are they
property? I call Lieutenant Commander Data to the stand. 
(Picard has Data's case with him. He opens it) 
PICARD: What are these? 
DATA: My medals. 
PICARD: Why do you pack them? What logical purpose do they serve? 
DATA: I do not know, sir. I suppose none. I just wanted them. Is that
vanity? 
PICARD: And this? 
(The book) 
DATA: A gift from you, sir. 
PICARD: You value it? 
DATA: Yes, sir. 
PICARD: Why? 
DATA: It is a reminder of friendship and service. 
(Picard activates the hologram of Tasha) 
PICARD: And this? You have no other portraits of your fellow crew
members. Why this person? 
DATA: I would prefer not to answer that question, sir. I gave my word. 
PICARD: Under the circumstances, I don't think Tasha would mind. 
DATA: She was special to me, sir. We were intimate. 
(Phillipa sits up) 
PICARD: Thank you, Commander. I have no further questions for this
witness. 
PHILLIPA: Commander Riker, do you want to cross? 
RIKER: I have no questions, Your Honour. 
PHILLIPA: Thank you. You may step down.
PICARD: I call to the stand Commander Bruce Maddox as a hostile
witness. 
COMPUTER: Verify, Maddox, Bruce, Commander. Current assignment,
Associate Chair of Robotics, Daystrom Technological Institute. Major
papers 
PICARD: Yes, yes, yes. Suffice it to say, he's an expert. Commander, is
your contention that Lieutenant Commander Data is not a
sentient being and therefore not entitled to all the rights reserved
for all life forms within this Federation? 
MADDOX: Data is not sentient, no. 
PICARD: Commander, would you enlighten us? What is required for
sentience? 
MADDOX: Intelligence, self awareness, consciousness. 
PICARD: Prove to the court that I am sentient. 
MADDOX: This is absurd! We all know you're sentient. 
PICARD: So I am sentient, but Data is not? 
MADDOX: That's right. 
PICARD: Why? Why am I sentient? 
MADDOX: Well, you are self aware. 
PICARD: Ah, that's the second of your criteria. Let's deal with the
first, intelligence. Is Commander Data intelligent? 
MADDOX: Yes. It has the ability to learn and understand, and to cope
with new situations. 
PICARD: Like this hearing. 
MADDOX: Yes. 
PICARD: What about self awareness. What does that mean? Why am I self
aware? 
MADDOX: Because you are conscious of your existence and actions. You
are aware of yourself and your own ego. 
PICARD: Commander Data, what are you doing now? 
DATA: I am taking part in a legal hearing to determine my rights and
status. Am I a person or property? 
PICARD: And what's at stake? 
DATA: My right to choose. Perhaps my very life. 
PICARD: My rights. My status. My right to choose. My life. It seems
reasonably self aware to me. Commander? I'm waiting. 
MADDOX: This is exceedingly difficult. 
PICARD: Do you like Commander Data? 
MADDOX: I don't know it well enough to like or dislike it. 
PICARD: But you admire him? 
MADDOX: Oh yes, it's an extraordinary piece of 
PICARD: Engineering and programming. Yes, you have said that.
Commander, you have devoted your life to the study of cybernetics in
general? 
MADDOX: Yes. 
PICARD: And Commander Data in particular? 
MADDOX: Yes. 
PICARD: And now you propose to dismantle him. 
MADDOX: So that I can learn from it and construct more. 
PICARD: How many more? 
MADDOX: As many as are needed. Hundreds, thousands if necessary. There
is no limit. 
PICARD: A single Data, and forgive me, Commander, is a curiosity. A
wonder, even. But thousands of Datas. Isn't that becoming a race? And
won't we be judged by how we treat that race? Now, tell me, Commander,
what is Data? 
MADDOX: I don't understand. 
PICARD: What is he? 
MADDOX: A machine! 
PICARD: Is he? Are you sure? 
MADDOX: Yes! 
PICARD: You see, he's met two of your three criteria for sentience, so
what if he meets the third. Consciousness in even the smallest degree.
What is he then? I don't know. Do you? (to Riker) Do you? (to Phillipa)
Do you? Well, that's the question you have to answer. Your Honour, the
courtroom is a crucible. In it we burn away irrelevancies until we are
left with a pure product, the truth for all time. Now, sooner or later,
this man or others like him will succeed in replicating Commander Data.
And the decision you reach here today will determine how we will regard
this creation of our genius. It will reveal the kind of a people we
are, what he is destined to be. It will reach far beyond this courtroom
and this one android. It could significantly redefine the boundaries of
personal liberty and freedom, expanding them for some, savagely
curtailing them for others. Are you prepared to condemn him and all who
come after him to servitude and slavery? Your Honour, Starfleet was
founded to seek out new life. Well, there it sits. Waiting. You wanted
a chance to make law. Well, here it is. Make a good one. 
PHILLIPA: It sits there looking at me, and I don't know what it is.
This case has dealt with metaphysics, with questions best left to
saints and philosophers. I'm neither competent nor qualified to answer
those. I've got to make a ruling, to try to speak to the future. Is
Data a machine? Yes. Is he the property of Starfleet? No. We have all
been dancing around the basic issue. Does Data have a soul? I don't
know that he has. I don't know that I have. But I have got to give him
the freedom to explore that question himself. It is the ruling of this
court that Lieutenant Commander Data has the freedom to choose. 
(Data walks over to Maddox) 
DATA: I formally refuse to undergo your procedure. 
MADDOX: I will cancel that transfer order. 
DATA: Thank you. And, Commander, continue your work. When you are
ready, I will still be here. I find some of what you propose
intriguing. 
(Data leaves) 
MADDOX: He's remarkable. 
PHILLIPA: You didn't call him it. 
(Maddox leaves) 
PHILLIPA: You see? Sometimes it does work. 
PICARD: Phillipa. Dinner? 
PHILLIPA: You buying? 
