PICARD RIKER COMPUTER DATA PHILLIPA
seven responses pinocchio realises hardware read webster piece man

[Computer room]

RIKER: Computer, identify Riker, William T. Access
code theta alpha two seven three seven, blue, enable. 
COMPUTER: Riker, William T, identified. Ready. 
RIKER: Access all available technical schematics on Lieutenant
Commander Data. 
COMPUTER: Working. 
(Then up pops 'emergency manual control' and Data's off-switch location
is displayed. Riker is fascinated at this new information, then
realises the implication)

[Courtroom]

PHILLIPA: This hearing, convened on stardate
42527.4, is to determine the legal status of the android known as Data.
The office of the Judge Advocate General has rendered a finding of
property, the defence has challenged. Commander Riker? 
RIKER: Your honour, there is only one issue, and one relevant piece of
evidence. I call Lieutenant Commander Data. 
(Data goes to the witness chair and puts his hand on a scanner on the
table) 
COMPUTER: Verify. Lieutenant Commander Data. Current assignment, USS
Enterprise. Starfleet Command Decoration for Valour and 
RIKER: Your honour, we'll stipulate to all of this. 
PICARD: Objection, Your Honour, I want this read. All of it. 
PHILLIPA: Sustained. 
COMPUTER: Valour and Gallantry, Medal of Honour with Clusters, Legion
of Honour, the Star Cross. 
PHILLIPA: Proceed, Commander. 
RIKER: Commander, what are you? 
DATA: An android. 
RIKER: Which is? 
DATA: Webster's Twenty Fourth Century Dictionary, Fifth Edition,
defines an android as an automaton made to resemble a human being. 
RIKER: Automaton. Made. By whom? 
DATA: Sir? 
RIKER: Who built you, Commander? 
DATA: Doctor Noonien Soong. 
RIKER: And he was? 
DATA: The foremost authority in cybernetics. 
RIKER: More basic than that. What was he? 
DATA: Human? 
RIKER: Thank you. Commander, what is the capacity of your memory, and
how fast can you access information? 
DATA: I have an ultimate storage capacity of eight hundred quadrillion
bits. My total linear computational speed has been rated at sixty
trillion operations per second. 
RIKER: Your Honour, I offer in evidence prosecution's exhibit A, a rod
of par-steel. Tensile strength, forty kilobars. Commander, would you
bend that? 
PICARD: Objection. There are many life forms possessed of mega
strength. These issues are not relevant to this hearing. 
PHILLIPA: I'm afraid I can't agree, Captain. Proceed with you
demonstration, Commander. 
(Data bends the heavy rod neatly into a U shape) 
RIKER: Drawing on the log record of the construction of the prototype
android Lore, also constructed by Noonien Soong, I request to be
allowed to remove the Commander's hand for your inspection. 
PICARD: Objection! (changes his mind) It doesn't matter. Objection
withdrawn. 
PHILLIPA: Proceed, Commander. 
RIKER: I'm sorry. 
(Riker twists and pulls off Data's left forearm and hand)
RIKER: The Commander is a physical representation of a dream, an idea
conceived of by the mind of a man. It's
purpose is to serve human needs and interests. It's a collection of
neural nets and heuristic algorithms. Its responses dictated by an
elaborate software programme written by a man. Its hardware built by a
man. And now. And now a man will shut it off. 
(A flick of the hidden off switch, and Data slumps across the table) 
RIKER: Pinocchio is broken. Its strings have been cut. 
(A horrified silence descends) 
PICARD: I request a recess. 
PHILLIPA: Granted.

