PICARD RIKER DATA MADDOX
positronic doctor transfer work crew command soong sounds filament

[Observation lounge]

PICARD: All right, explain this procedure. 
MADDOX: Ever since I first saw Data at the entrance evaluation at the
Starfleet Academy, I've wanted to understand it. I became a student of
the works of Doctor Noonien Soong, Data's creator, and I've tried to
continue his work. I believe I am very close to the breakthrough that
will enable me to duplicate Doctor Soong's work and replicate this. But
as a first step I must disassemble and study it. Data is going to be my
guide. 
PICARD: Data? 
DATA: It sounds intriguing. 
RIKER: How will you proceed? 
MADDOX: I will run a full diagnostic on Data, evaluating the condition
of its current software. I will then dump its core memory into the
starbase mainframe computer and begin a detailed analysis of its
construction. 
DATA: You've constructed a positronic brain? 
MADDOX: Yes. 
DATA: Have you determined how the electron resistance across the neural
filaments is to be resolved? 
MADDOX: Not precisely. 
DATA: That would seem to be a necessary first step. 
MADDOX: I am confident that I will find the answer once I examine the
filament links in your anterior cortex. 
DATA: But if the answer is not forthcoming, your model will not
function. 
MADDOX: I do not anticipate any problems. 
RIKER: You seem a little vague on the specifics. 
PICARD: What are the risks to Commander Data? 
MADDOX: Negligible. 
DATA: Captain, I believe his basic research lacks the specifics
necessary to support an experiment of this magnitude. 
PICARD: Commander Data is a valued member of my Bridge crew. Based on
what I've heard, I cannot allow Commander Data to submit himself to
this experiment. 
MADDOX: I was afraid this might be your attitude, Captain. Here are
Starfleet's transfer orders separating Commander Data from the
Enterprise, and reassigning it to Starbase one seventy three under my
command. Data, I will see you in my office tomorrow at zero nine
hundred hours. 

