MADDOX PHILLIPA DATA PICARD
overt customary doctor property boundless small fortune believe dream

[Data's quarters]

(Data is packing a very small carry case. It's
contents include a small holo-projector that displays an image of Tasha
Yar, an impressive collection of medals, He puts a book on the desk and
then Maddox walks in without even knocking. Data comes back with
another item to find Maddox reading) 
MADDOX: 'When in disgrace with fortune and men's eyes, I all alone
beweep my outcast
state'. Is it just words to you, or do you fathom the meaning? 
(Shakespeare's
sonnet 29) 
DATA: Is it not customary to request permission before entering an
individual's quarters? 
MADDOX: I thought that we could talk this out, that I could try to
persuade you. Your memories and knowledge will remain intact. 
DATA: Reduced to the mere facts of the events. The substance, the
flavour of the moment, could be lost. Take games of chance. 
MADDOX: Games of chance? 
DATA: Yes, I had read and absorbed every treatise and textbook on the
subject, and felt myself well prepared for the experience. Yet, when I
finally played poker, I discovered that the reality bore little
resemblance to the rules. 
MADDOX: And the point being? 
DATA: That while I believe it is possible to download the information
contained in the positronic brain, I do not think you have acquired the
expertise necessary to preserve the essence of those experiences. There
is an ineffable quality to memory which I do not believe can survive
your procedure. 
MADDOX: Ineffable quality. I had rather we had done this together, but
one way or the other, we are doing it. You are under my command. 
DATA: No, sir, I am not under your nor anyone else's command. I have
resigned from Starfleet. 
MADDOX: Resigned? You can't resign. 
DATA: I regret the decision, but I must. I am the culmination of one
man's dream. This is not ego or vanity, but when Doctor Soong created
me he added to the substance of the universe. If by your experiments I
am destroyed, something unique, something wonderful will be lost. I
cannot permit that, I must protect his dream. 
MADDOX: And so must I. But keep packing, because one way or the other,
you will be reporting. 
Captain's log, supplemental. Commander Bruce
Maddox, having been thwarted by Data's abrupt resignation, is now
seeking a legal remedy for his woes. Captain Louvois has requested my
presence at those discussions.

[JAG office]

MADDOX: Your response is emotional and irrational. 
PICARD: Irrational? 
MADDOX: You are endowing Data with human characteristics because it
looks human. But it is not. If it were a box on wheels I would not be
facing this opposition. 
PHILLIPA: Overt sentimentality is not one of Captain Picard's failings.
Trust me, I know. 
PICARD: I will tell you again. Data is a valued member of my crew. He
is an outstanding Bridge officer. 
MADDOX: If I am permitted to make this experiment, the horizons for
human achievement become boundless. Consider, every ship in Starfleet
with a Data on board. Utilising its tremendous capabilities, acting as
our hands and eyes in dangerous situations. 
PHILLIPA: Look, you're preaching to the choir here. Why don't you get
to the point? 
MADDOX: Data must not be permitted to resign. 
PICARD: Data is a Starfleet officer. He still has certain rights. 
MADDOX: Rights! Rights! I'm sick to death of hearing about rights! What
about my right not to have my life work subverted by blind ignorance? 
PHILLIPA: We have rule of law in this Federation. You ca not simply
seize people and experiment with them to prove your pet theories. 
PICARD: Thank you. 
MADDOX: Now you're doing it. Data is an extraordinary piece of
engineering, but it is a machine. If you permit it to resign it will
destroy years of work in robotics. Starfleet does not have to allow the
resignation. 
PICARD: Commander, who do you think you're working for? Starfleet is
not an organisation that ignores its own regulations when they become
inconvenient. Whether you like it or not, Data does have rights. 
MADDOX: Let me put it another way. Would you permit the computer of the
Enterprise to refuse a refit? 
PHILLIPA: That's an interesting point. But the Enterprise computer is
property. Is Data? 
MADDOX: Of course. 
PHILLIPA: There may be law to support this position. 
PICARD: Then find it. A ruling with such broad ranging implications
must be supported. Phillipa, I hope you will use the same zeal that you
did in the Stargazer court martial.

