RIKER PHILLIPA PICARD GUINAN COMPUTER DATA
afraid log admission disposable truth fourth man fine creatures

[Courtroom]

PHILLIPA: This hearing, convened on stardate
42527.4, is to determine the legal status of the android known as Data.
The office of the Judge Advocate General has rendered a finding of
property, the defence has challenged. Commander Riker? 
RIKER: Your honour, there is only one issue, and one relevant piece of
evidence. I call Lieutenant Commander Data. 
(Data goes to the witness chair and puts his hand on a scanner on the
table) 
COMPUTER: Verify. Lieutenant Commander Data. Current assignment, USS
Enterprise. Starfleet Command Decoration for Valour and 
RIKER: Your honour, we'll stipulate to all of this. 
PICARD: Objection, Your Honour, I want this read. All of it. 
PHILLIPA: Sustained. 
COMPUTER: Valour and Gallantry, Medal of Honour with Clusters, Legion
of Honour, the Star Cross. 
PHILLIPA: Proceed, Commander. 
RIKER: Commander, what are you? 
DATA: An android. 
RIKER: Which is? 
DATA: Webster's Twenty Fourth Century Dictionary, Fifth Edition,
defines an android as an automaton made to resemble a human being. 
RIKER: Automaton. Made. By whom? 
DATA: Sir? 
RIKER: Who built you, Commander? 
DATA: Doctor Noonien Soong. 
RIKER: And he was? 
DATA: The foremost authority in cybernetics. 
RIKER: More basic than that. What was he? 
DATA: Human? 
RIKER: Thank you. Commander, what is the capacity of your memory, and
how fast can you access information? 
DATA: I have an ultimate storage capacity of eight hundred quadrillion
bits. My total linear computational speed has been rated at sixty
trillion operations per second. 
RIKER: Your Honour, I offer in evidence prosecution's exhibit A, a rod
of par-steel. Tensile strength, forty kilobars. Commander, would you
bend that? 
PICARD: Objection. There are many life forms possessed of mega
strength. These issues are not relevant to this hearing. 
PHILLIPA: I'm afraid I can't agree, Captain. Proceed with you
demonstration, Commander. 
(Data bends the heavy rod neatly into a U shape) 
RIKER: Drawing on the log record of the construction of the prototype
android Lore, also constructed by Noonien Soong, I request to be
allowed to remove the Commander's hand for your inspection. 
PICARD: Objection! (changes his mind) It doesn't matter. Objection
withdrawn. 
PHILLIPA: Proceed, Commander. 
RIKER: I'm sorry. 
(Riker twists and pulls off Data's left forearm and hand)
RIKER: The Commander is a physical representation of a dream, an idea
conceived of by the mind of a man. It's
purpose is to serve human needs and interests. It's a collection of
neural nets and heuristic algorithms. Its responses dictated by an
elaborate software programme written by a man. Its hardware built by a
man. And now. And now a man will shut it off. 
(A flick of the hidden off switch, and Data slumps across the table) 
RIKER: Pinocchio is broken. Its strings have been cut. 
(A horrified silence descends) 
PICARD: I request a recess. 
PHILLIPA: Granted.

[Ten forward]

(There is only one customer present, sitting at the
bar) 
GUINAN: Do you mean his argument was that good? 
PICARD: Riker's presentation was devastating. He almost convinced me. 
GUINAN: You've got the harder argument. By his own admission, Data is a
machine. 
PICARD: That's true. 
GUINAN: You're worried about what's going to happen to him? 
PICARD: I've had to send people on far more dangerous missions. 
GUINAN: Then this should work out fine. Maddox could get lucky and
create a whole army of Datas, all very valuable. 
PICARD: Oh, yes. No doubt. 
GUINAN: He's proved his value to you. 
PICARD: In ways that I cannot even begin to calculate. 
GUINAN: And now he's about to be ruled the property of Starfleet. That
should increase his value. 
PICARD: In what way? 
GUINAN: Well, consider that in the history of many worlds there have
always been disposable creatures. They do the dirty work. They do the
work that no one else wants to do because it's too difficult, or to
hazardous. And an army of Datas, all disposable, you don't have to
think about their welfare, you don't think about how they feel. Whole
generations of disposable people. 
PICARD: You're talking about slavery. 
GUINAN: I think that's a little harsh. 
PICARD: I don't think that's a little harsh. I think that's the truth.
But that's a truth we have obscured
behind a comfortable, easy euphemism. Property. But that's not the
issue at all, is it?

