PICARD PHILLIPA DATA MADDOX
flavour entering vocabulary permission didn gobbledygook small captain dream

[JAG office]

PHILLIPA: My God, twice in as many days. 
PICARD: I need your help. 
PHILLIPA: An historic moment. 
PICARD: I have been trying to make sense of this gobbledygook, but it's
beyond me. The fact is, my android officer, Data, is being transferred
compulsorily to be made part of a highly dangerous, ill-conceived
experiment, and I want it stopped. 
PHILLIPA: He can refuse to undergo the procedure, but we can't stop the
transfer. 
PICARD: Once this Maddox has got control of Data, anything could
happen. I don't trust that man. 
PHILLIPA: We agree to certain risks when we join Starfleet. 
PICARD: Yes. Acceptable risks, justified risks, but I can't accept
this. It's unjustified. It's unfair. He has rights. 
PHILLIPA: All this passion over a machine? 
PICARD: Don't start. This is important to me. Is there an option? 
PHILLIPA: There is always an option. He can resign. 
PICARD: I see. 
PHILLIPA: So you came to me for help. 
PICARD: Yes, I came to you. You're the JAG officer for this sector. I
had no choice but to come to you. 
PHILLIPA: Wait! I didn't mean it that way. I'm glad that you felt you
could, well, come to me. 
PICARD: The word trust just isn't in your vocabulary, is it. Good try,
nine out of ten for effort. 
PHILLIPA: I wish things were different. 
PICARD: I wish I could believe that.

[Data's quarters]

(Data is packing a very small carry case. It's
contents include a small holo-projector that displays an image of Tasha
Yar, an impressive collection of medals, He puts a book on the desk and
then Maddox walks in without even knocking. Data comes back with
another item to find Maddox reading) 
MADDOX: 'When in disgrace with fortune and men's eyes, I all alone
beweep my outcast
state'. Is it just words to you, or do you fathom the meaning? 
(Shakespeare's
sonnet 29) 
DATA: Is it not customary to request permission before entering an
individual's quarters? 
MADDOX: I thought that we could talk this out, that I could try to
persuade you. Your memories and knowledge will remain intact. 
DATA: Reduced to the mere facts of the events. The substance, the
flavour of the moment, could be lost. Take games of chance. 
MADDOX: Games of chance? 
DATA: Yes, I had read and absorbed every treatise and textbook on the
subject, and felt myself well prepared for the experience. Yet, when I
finally played poker, I discovered that the reality bore little
resemblance to the rules. 
MADDOX: And the point being? 
DATA: That while I believe it is possible to download the information
contained in the positronic brain, I do not think you have acquired the
expertise necessary to preserve the essence of those experiences. There
is an ineffable quality to memory which I do not believe can survive
your procedure. 
MADDOX: Ineffable quality. I had rather we had done this together, but
one way or the other, we are doing it. You are under my command. 
DATA: No, sir, I am not under your nor anyone else's command. I have
resigned from Starfleet. 
MADDOX: Resigned? You can't resign. 
DATA: I regret the decision, but I must. I am the culmination of one
man's dream. This is not ego or vanity, but when Doctor Soong created
me he added to the substance of the universe. If by your experiments I
am destroyed, something unique, something wonderful will be lost. I
cannot permit that, I must protect his dream. 
MADDOX: And so must I. But keep packing, because one way or the other,
you will be reporting. 
Captain's log, supplemental. Commander Bruce
Maddox, having been thwarted by Data's abrupt resignation, is now
seeking a legal remedy for his woes. Captain Louvois has requested my
presence at those discussions.

