RIKER WORF PICARD SALIA LAFORGE [OC] TROI WESLEY PICARD [on monitor] GIRL SALIA [on viewscreen] DATA SALIA [OC]
major shortly constantly young hoped laid blood open fact

[Wesley's quarters]

(Wesley is preening in front of a full length
mirror) 
WESLEY: Come in. 
DATA: You wanted to see me? 
WESLEY: Yes. Data, the girl who came on board. 
DATA: Salia of Daled Four. 
WESLEY: Who is she? 
DATA: Little is known. She was born on Daled Four. Her parents were
from opposite sides in a civil war which has lasted for centuries. They
both died shortly after her birth. A Federation ship brought her and
her governess to Klavdia Three so that she could be raised in a neutral
environment. 
WESLEY: And now she's returning? 
DATA: It is hoped she will unite the factions and bring peace. 
LAFORGE [OC]: Ensign Crusher, report. Are you all right? 
WESLEY: Geordi? Yeah, I'm fine. I just 
LAFORGE [OC]: Wes, we're waiting for that magnet. 
WESLEY: I'm on my way. 
[Bridge]

RIKER: Captain, we've broken orbit and laid in a
course for Daled Four. We will remain on impulse power until Lieutenant
La Forge completes his adjustments. 
PICARD: Mister Worf, have our passenger's accommodations met with their
approval? 
WORF: I doubt if anything ever meets with that woman's approval, sir. 
TROI: Captain, I'm concerned our new passengers. Their emotions do not
fit who they are and what they're doing. 
PICARD: Are you suggesting they're not who they say they are? 
TROI: Actually no, it's more like they're not what they say they are. 
PICARD: Picard to Salia's quarters. 
SALIA [OC]: Yes? 
PICARD: May we turn on the viewer? 
SALIA [OC]: Yes, of course.
PICARD: Are your quarters satisfactory? 
SALIA [on viewscreen]: Yes, very. Tell me, Captain, who was the young
man I met before? 
[Salia's quarters]

PICARD [on monitor]: That was Ensign Wesley
Crusher. 
(Anya enters) 
SALIA: Thank you for checking on us, Captain. I only hope our quarters
on Daled Four will be this luxurious. 
PICARD [on monitor]: Please feel free to contact me at any time. Picard
out.

[Bridge]

TROI: What I sensed before hasn't changed. 
DATA: What puzzles me, Captain, is how she is expected to bring peace
to Daled Four. Its inhabitants have been fighting throughout their
recorded history. 
PICARD: What do we know about the cause of these wars? 
DATA: Only that it is the difference between night and day. 
RIKER: Data, you used a colloquialism. 
DATA: Did I? What I meant, sir, is that Daled Four rotates only once
per revolution. Therefore one side is constantly dark, and the other
side constantly light. One might surmise that the two hemispheres have
developed disparate cultures, which is a major cause of most wars. 
PICARD: This child is supposed to bring them together. 
RIKER: She seems too delicate for such a task. 
WORF: Do not be fooled by her looks. The body is just a shell.

[Salia's quarters]

(Salia is talking to another teenaged girl. Where
did she come from?) 
SALIA: How can I be a leader if I don't know anything about my people? 
GIRL: You will lead because you are accepted by both sides. And because
it is in your blood. 
SALIA: What is expected of me once I'm there? 
GIRL: You will know. 
SALIA: How? 
GIRL: You just will. Salia, you must arrive with an open mind, without
preconceived ideas of the worlds
you will find or the people on either side. 
SALIA: It's very frustrating. 
GIRL: You feel the weight of so much responsibility, you're not sure
you'll live up to everyone's expectations. 
SALIA: It's not only that. Nobody's even asked me if this is something
I want. 
GIRL: It is your duty. 
SALIA: And I have no choice. 
GIRL: It won't be as bad as you think. In fact, it could be quite
wonderful. Besides, you are the last and only chance. 
(The girl changes into a short, big-eyed, hairy creature that chatters
at her in alien) 
SALIA: Don't you think I'm going to need more than instinct to do
whatever is expected of me on Daled Four?

