RIKER LAFORGE WORF DOCTOR PICARD MEDIC PULASKI O'BRIEN DATA
log just biobeds site master bandage energise speculation hope

[Bridge]

WORF: Tractor beam ready, sir. 
(Geordi comes flying out of the turbolift and tumbles head over heels
down the slope) 
RIKER: Geordi, are you all right? 
LAFORGE: Destroy the probe, sir. Quickly! 
PICARD: Worf, target phasers. 
WORF: Phasers locked on target. 
PICARD: Fire! 
(The blue globe disintegrates in ball of flames) 
PICARD: Welcome to the Bridge, Mister La Forge. 
LAFORGE: Thank you, sir. If that thing had managed to scan us, we never
would have had any chance of saving the Enterprise.

[Observation lounge]

LAFORGE: That probe was a transmitter sending an
alien computer programme. The same
programme that is currently aboard the Enterprise trying to rewrite our
software in its own image. We have two completely incompatible computer
systems trying to interact. 
RIKER: So that's why the ship's instruments have become so erratic. 
LAFORGE: Yes. 
PICARD: What can you do? 
LAFORGE: Not very much. The Iconian programme is so sophisticated I may
never understand it. 
DATA: Consider, Captain, this programme has entered an alien data base,
ours, and in less than seven hours has managed to not only learn our
systems, but has begun to reprogram our computer. 
PICARD: And so the earlier probe was responsible for the Yamato's
destruction? 
LAFORGE: Yes, but only in as much as it was the probe that transmitted
the programme. 
RIKER: But we weren't scanned by that probe. How did this thing get
aboard the Enterprise? 
DATA: We downloaded the Yamato log, and contained in the log was the
programme. 
PICARD: Why didn't we suffered the same fate? 
LAFORGE: The programme affected all of the Yamato's systems
simultaneously. But with us, it was deposited within a specific section
of our mainframe, so it's having to work its way out from that
location. That gives us a little breathing space. 
RIKER: Not much. The injury reports are increasing too, sir. 
DATA: Doctor Pulaski is unwilling to trust the turbolifts. She is
sending medical teams through the access tunnels. 
LAFORGE: Captain, the Enterprise computer system is a lot like our own
bodies with voluntary and involuntary system. Now, probably ninety
percent of what happens on this ship is done automatically. Completely
out of our control. We're sitting on a bomb that could go off any
second, or maybe never. 
[Sickbay]

(Kate is chewing out a medic as the lights go up
and down) 
PULASKI: The biobeds aren't working? The ship is falling apart! I've
had thirty-five emergency calls scattered across twelve decks. My
trauma teams are being run ragged trying to respond. Biobeds! 
MEDIC: Doctor Pulaski. 
PULASKI: Yes. 
MEDIC: I've got a problem here. The knitter isn't working. 
PULASKI: Try a splint. 
MEDIC: Doctor? 
PULASKI: Splint. It's a very ancient concept. You take two flat pieces
of wood or plastic, a bandage. The broken limb is kept immobile. 
DOCTOR: That's crazy, that's not practicing medicine. 
PULASKI: Oh yes, it is. It's a time honoured way to practice medicine,
with your head and your heart and your hands. So jump to it.

[Engineering]

LAFORGE: Damn! 
DATA: Try a bypass on the shield control interface. 
LAFORGE: No go. Let me see if I can directly access the master
programme. 
(Electricity leaps into Geordi when he touches the panel. Data throws
him clear - across the room) 
LAFORGE: Data? 
DATA: Yes? 
LAFORGE: What happened? 
DATA: Any answer would be mere speculation. This is yet another example
of how our actions have random results. 
LAFORGE: Thanks, Data. I noticed.

[Ready room]

RIKER: Life support has failed on decks seven and
thirteen, sir. Now what if this thing manages to rewrite our entire
system? It's so far beyond us that we don't have a hope of
understanding it, let alone controlling it. Our own ignorance could
kill us. 
PICARD: We may never reach that point. A variation of what happened to
the Yamato might destroy us first. 
RIKER: So we just sit here and watch our ship disintegrate around us? 
PICARD: The probe was launched from Iconia, probably from an automated
system. There may be records near the launch site that could help us
find a solution. 
RIKER: I'll arrange an away team. 
PICARD: And I'll lead it. 
RIKER: You will lead it? 
PICARD: Yes. 
RIKER: Sir, we've had this conversation a hundred times. 
PICARD: And we will have it again, Number One. I have been studying the
Iconians since I was a cadet. I have to be the one to go. The
Enterprise is yours. 
(Picard leaves) 
RIKER: For as long as she lasts. 
[Transporter room]

(Guy Vardeman is fiddling with a panel in the
background when Picard, Data and Worf enter) 
O'BRIEN: I've got a fix on the energy source, and for the moment this
baby's working, but that could change in an instant. 
PICARD: We're aware of the risks. Energise.
O'BRIEN: Transport complete. 
