RIKER WORF CREWMAN PICARD COMPUTER DATA LAFORGE

[Iconian Control room]

DATA: Captain, your original hypothesis is correct.
Iconian is the parent tongue of a language family which consists of
Iccobar, Dewan and Dinasian. I have constructed a basic working
understanding through a comparison of common root words such as mother,
father, child, home, tribe, food, life, death, yours, ours, mine 
PICARD: Data, Data, Data. 
DATA: You do understand, sir, that my interpretation of the symbols
will not be exact? 
PICARD: Yes. Let's get on with it. 
DATA: This would appear to be manual override. 
(He presses the key pad, the globe comes to life and sends an energy
beam to the wall. Other beams join in to create a rectangular 3D image
of a coast scene) 
DATA: That was not manual override. 
PICARD: Demons of Air and Darkness, indeed. 
(The coast becomes the Acropolis, or similar) 
WORF: What is that? 
PICARD: A gateway? 
WORF: These scenes could be holographic images. 
(Data goes towards it) 
PICARD: Be careful. 
(Data sticks his arm into the image. Picard pulls him back) 
PICARD: Data! That was very foolish. 
DATA: But we have established that this is not a holograph. If I step
through and investigate, we could determine whether it is truly a
gateway. 
PICARD: No, Data. You might not be able to get back, and I can't risk
losing you. 
WORF: If it is not illusion, this gate would seem to take us beyond the
confines of this planet. 
PICARD: Is this how the Iconians travelled? Crossing light years as
easily as we would cross a room? Those places could be on worlds in
distant sectors of the galaxy. I think the Iconians might have
out-foxed their enemies. Maybe they didn't all die in the bombardment.
Some of them could have passed through this. This is what Varley
feared. This is what he died for. 
WORF: Sir? 
PICARD: The Romulans could use this technology as a weapon. 
WORF: Like the Iconians did. 
DATA: No, I disagree. Captain, there is nothing in this room to
indicate it was used as a military command centre. Perhaps a
transporter room? 
WORF: But the probe was hostile. 
PICARD: We can't make that assumption. The effect on the Yamato was
devastating, but what if it was by accident, not by design. What I'm
going to say may sound unscientific, but standing on this soil,
breathing in this air, my instincts tell me that we may have got them
wrong. 
WORF: But we do know that the Iconians were conquerors. 
PICARD: But that knowledge was passed down by the descendants of those
who attacked this world. The victors invariably write the history to
their own advantage. There is an unfortunate tendency in many cultures
to fear what they do not understand. It's possible that their enemies,
confronted with this technology, were driven to attack the Iconians out
of fear. 
(An image of the Bridge appears) 
WORF: Sir! 
(And is replaced by a skyscraper) 
WORF: Was that really the Enterprise? 
PICARD: I believe that it was. Gentlemen, we have a way home. 
DATA: Captain, there is a vast underground power source which is
controlled by this console. I believe my triggering of the gateway has
caused a dramatic upsurge in power level. Ah, I have access. 
(He starts tapping at the console, and the energy beam zaps him. Worf
catches Data as he falls backwards) 
PICARD: Data, can you hear me? Data, respond. 
DATA: Captain. 
WORF: Are you all right? 
DATA: No, I am damaged. 
PICARD: How bad is it? 
DATA: The Iconian programme is attempting to rewrite my software.
Physical manifestations, blindness, motor con 
WORF: Sir, without him we have no hope of deciphering the programme.
Captain, the Enterprise again. 
PICARD: How long is the interval? 
WORF: About four minutes, if the cycle holds. 
PICARD: The next time the Enterprise appears, go through it with Data.
Geordi will be able to learn from him. Maybe help him. 
WORF: Sir, we have not yet established that that is truly a gateway. 
PICARD: This will be the test. 
WORF: Aye, sir. 
PICARD: Destroy the tricorder. 
WORF: Sir, it contains everything we've discovered up to this point. 
PICARD: And that is precisely why it must be destroyed. How long? 
WORF: About three minutes. 
PICARD: I'm running out of time. We all are. Data. Data, I have to
destroy this. This control room and its technology must not be allowed
to fall into Romulan hands. 
DATA: I understand, sir. 
PICARD: How! How do I do it? How do I destroy everything? The control
room, the probes, all of it. 
(Worf phasers the tricorder) 
DATA: The power source, sir. 
PICARD: I detonate it. But how? How do I do that? 
DATA: The probes, sir. 
PICARD: Probes? The probes. Launch? I launch the probes? But why?
What's good will that do? 
DATA: The doors, sir. 
PICARD: Doors? 
WORF: Perhaps the probes are in a launch bay. 
PICARD: And if the doors are closed, then the backwash from the rockets
will spill into the power grids and there'll be an overload. 
DATA: Yes, sir. 
PICARD: But the doors will open automatically when the launch begins.
And I will override. 
DATA: Correct, sir. 
PICARD: Which control keys? Damn. Of course, you can't see. 
DATA: Help. 
PICARD: Worf, help him up. 
DATA: Describe, please. 
PICARD: I'm standing directly in front of the gate. To my left there is
a small triangular screen. 
DATA: Right one metre. 
PICARD: Right. Now, to my right is a larger triangular screen. The top
is solid amber. To the left, red. 
DATA: Correct. Key blue, amber, amber, red. 
PICARD: That's the launch sequence? How do I override the doors? 
DATA: Blue, blue, blue. 
PICARD: I hope that's not a stutter. I don't know how long a delay
there will be between the launch and the detonation. I'll hold keying
the launch sequence until you're through the gate. How long until the
Enterprise reappears? 
WORF: Almost time. Captain, you will be killed. 
PICARD: I'll go through the gate. 
WORF: But where will you end up? 
PICARD: Very shortly, anywhere will be preferable to this room. Mister
Worf, I am depending on you. You must get Data back to the Enterprise.
He may be their only hope. 
WORF: Aye, sir. 
(He picks up Data in a fireman's lift. The image changes from the
Romulan bridge to the Enterprise. Worf steps through)

[Bridge]

CREWMAN: Commander! Look! 
RIKER: Worf! What happened? Where's the Captain? 
WORF: We must take Data to Engineering. Hopefully the Captain will
follow. 
[Engineering]

LAFORGE: I don't know how to help him. But
comparing recorded norms for Data to the current readings, it's clear
that all his functions are just going crazy. If we had an expert, a
Maddox, somebody, I 
(The tricorder emits a single tone, and Geordi closes Data's eyes) 
LAFORGE: He's gone.

[Iconian Control room]

(Picard enters the command sequence blue, amber,
amber, red) 
COMPUTER: Kandar qui. Kandar pro. Kandar kija. Kandar sis. Kandar exen.

[Engineering]

(Data opens his eyes and sits up) 
LAFORGE: Data! 
RIKER: What the hell? 
DATA: I am accessing. 
LAFORGE: The self-correcting mechanism. 
DATA: Captain? Captain? 
LAFORGE: It's constantly kicking in to make minute adjustments in the
positronic brain. 
DATA: I am on the Enterprise. How did I get here? 
RIKER: He cleared the Iconian programme from his own system. How? 
DATA: Iconia? I was on Iconia, now I am on the Enterprise. 
RIKER: Geordi, this is critical. How? 
LAFORGE: Okay, give me a second to think. There was an incompatible
programme running through Data's system, so the mechanism started
searching for a way to keep him alive. The solution. The solution was a
shutdown and a total wipe of all affected memory. 
DATA: Query. What have I forgotten? 
RIKER: Can you do the same thing with the Enterprise? 
LAFORGE: I don't see why not, but it will have to be a complete
shutdown. We turn her off, and effect a wipe of the Yamato log
including every subsequent event since we downloaded it. I'll then be
able to reload all the ship's programs from the protected archives in
the main core. 
RIKER: Geordi, if we shut down that means we're going to be bringing
down the shields, and we're hanging nose to nose with a Romulan battle
cruiser. 
LAFORGE: Hey, Commander, whether it's Romulan phasers or our own warp
engines, we're just as dead. 
RIKER: Make it so. 
DATA: May I help?

[Iconian Control room]

(As the Enterprise gets switched off) 
COMPUTER: Kandar nien, kandar cobar, 
(Picard enters blue, blue, blue) 
COMPUTER: Kandar konyen. 
(Enterprise boots up again) 
