PICARD COMPUTER VARLEY [on monitor]
bridge containing door parameters scan away words entry captain

[Ready room]

PICARD: Computer, access Captain Donald Varley's
personal log. Search parameter. Locate entries containing words Romulan
and or Iconia. 
COMPUTER: Working. 
VARLEY [on monitor]: Personal log. It was kind of Doctor Ramsey to
allow me to carry away my own little piece of legend from the
archaeological dig at Denius Three. My engineers have examined it, but
are completely baffled by its technology. What was its purpose? I'm
like a caveman confronted by a tricorder. I'm certain this device is
Iconian, but how far had it travelled before it was abandoned on this
alien world? (Second entry) Personal log. A galactic Rosetta stone. The
starfields on the artefact were unintelligible until I took into
account two hundred millennia of stellar drift. After that it was easy
to pinpoint Iconia. (Third entry) My First Officer is questioning the
wisdom of my order to violate the Neutral Zone, but I am convinced that
I have taken the only proper course. Should this advanced technology
fall into the hands of the Romulans, we might as well dock our ships
and defend ourselves with sticks. (Fourth entry) Personal log. We've
been spotted by a Romulan cruiser, but after playing hide and seek
through several solar systems, I think I've managed to elude them.
(Fifth entry) The Iconian probe scan. Was it an attempt at
communication? If only I knew what we were dealing with here.
(Sixth entry) Personal log. I'm unable to send an away team to the
surface of Iconia, nor can I scan the energy source on the planet
because of these maddening system failures. It's infuriating to be
stopped at the threshold of a dream by one's own ship. We're leaving
orbit to rendezvous with Picard. If his people can't help us repair the
Yamato, I must convince him to continue this exploration. The future
wellbeing of the Federation may well depend upon it. 
COMPUTER: No further entries conforming to search parameters. 
(Picard goes to the Bridge, but the door doesn't open for him at first
go) 
