TROI OBRIEN TARIS CREWMAN WORF PICARD RIKER WESLEY DATA WILLIAMS LAFORGE

[Bridge]

RIKER: Stay sharp, Mister O'Brien, I want to be
able to pull them out of there at a moment's notice. 
O'BRIEN [OC]: Aye, sir. 
WESLEY: Commander, Romulan vessel. 
(The big green ship decloaks in front of them) 
RIKER: Open hailing frequencies. 
WILLIAMS: (the lady who has replaced Worf) They're arming photon
torpedoes. 
RIKER: Shields up! Go to Red Alert. 
WESLEY: Sir, the shields aren't responding. 
WILLIAMS: They are preparing to fire photon torpedoes. 
RIKER: Mister Crusher, I need those shields! 
WESLEY: I'm trying, sir! 
WILLIAMS: They're firing. 
(No, they're not) 
RIKER: What happened? 
WILLIAMS: Instead of firing they suddenly disarmed and cancelled. 
RIKER: Fate protects fools, little children and ships named Enterprise.
Lock phasers on the Romulans and hold your fire. 
WESLEY: Sir, the shields are back up. 
RIKER: Impeccable timing. 
WESLEY: Sir, the shields are back down. 
WILLIAMS: Phaser banks are down. 
WESLEY: Shields are back up. 
TROI: In another time and place this could be funny. 
RIKER: Status of torpedo banks? 
WILLIAMS: They're down, too. 
RIKER: In case it should become necessary to fight, could you arrange
to find me some rocks to throw at them? 
WILLIAMS: Sir, the Romulan torpedoes are continuing to arm and disarm. 
RIKER: Maybe its attempt to fire was unintentional. Open hailing
frequencies. 
WILLIAMS: Open. 
RIKER: Romulan vessel, this is Commander William Riker, First Officer
of the USS Enterprise. Why did you attempt to fire on us? 
TARIS [on viewscreen]: This is Sub-Commander Taris of the Haakona. Why
have you penetrated deeper into the Neutral Zone? 
RIKER: Why are you still here? 
TARIS [on viewscreen]: I have claimed this planet for the Romulan
Empire. 
RIKER: This is the Neutral Zone. Nobody can claim anything. 
TARIS [on viewscreen]: You will withdraw or I will be forced to destroy
your ship and your away team. 
(Transmission ends, the Romulan ship starts to cloak then decloaks
again) 
RIKER: What the hell? 
TARIS [on viewscreen]: (through static) This is your final warning, I
will not 
(The picture clears up, but something else is going on off screen) 
RIKER: Having a little trouble with your systems, Commander? Maybe we
could consider postponing the war until we solve our more immediate
problem? 
TARIS [on viewscreen]: You're stalling for time. 
WESLEY: Sir, another probe launched from the planet, heading toward the
Romulans. 
RIKER: Have we got our phasers back? 
WILLIAMS: No, sir. 
RIKER: Taris, if you've got phaser capability, prepare use them now! 
TARIS [on viewscreen]: What? 
RIKER: Destroy that probe! 
(Transmission ends, the probe gets blown up) 
RIKER: And not even a thank you. 
TROI: Sub-Commander Taris is deeply frustrated, probably because her
ship is as crippled as the Enterprise. 
WESLEY: Why would the Romulans be experiencing problems? They weren't
probed. 
RIKER: They must have tapped into the Yamato log. Taris got a whole lot
more than she bargained for. Maintain Red Alert. Try to keep those
shields up in case Taris decides to act on her threat. 
WESLEY: Commander, what about the away team? With the shields up, we
can't beam them back.

Captain's log, supplemental. While there is little
left on the surface of Iconia, we have found what appears to be a
control centre which seems to have remained intact. 
[Iconian Control room]

(There is a central circular control console with a
globe on a pole above it) 
WORF: Come in, Enterprise. Still no response, sir. 
PICARD: Keep trying them. Communications are bound to be erratic. 
WORF: I would not like to become a permanent resident of this planet. 
PICARD: Nor would I, Mister Worf. 
DATA: Scanners show no other life forms on the planet, sir. 
PICARD: I would not expect any. Judging from the severity of
bombardment, I doubt any Iconians survived. Well, Mister Data, let's
see what sense we can make of this. 
DATA: Aye, sir. 
PICARD: This is very reminiscent of Dinasian. 
DATA: Yes, sir. There are also similarities to Dewan and Iccobar. 
PICARD: Is it possible that they could be branches of the same language
family, beginning with Iconian? 
DATA: It is, sir. 
PICARD: Run a comparison using basic simple words from Dinasian, Dewan
and Iccobar. See if we can reconstruct a common root language. 
DATA: Accessing, sir. 
[Bridge]

(Troi twitches) 
RIKER: You're jumpy. 
TROI: The tension on the ship is very high. 
RIKER: What's your recommendation? 
TROI: Give everyone something to do, somewhere to focus their
attention. 
RIKER: All right. Let's consider evacuation. 
TROI: To the planet? 
RIKER: I know it's probably impossible with Taris sitting out there,
but it would give everyone something to do. You go and organise it. 
TROI: But you might need me if you have to negotiate with Taris again. 
RIKER: I'll manage. Right now, they're more important.

[Iconian Control room]

DATA: Captain, your original hypothesis is correct.
Iconian is the parent tongue of a language family which consists of
Iccobar, Dewan and Dinasian. I have constructed a basic working
understanding through a comparison of common root words such as mother,
father, child, home, tribe, food, life, death, yours, ours, mine 
PICARD: Data, Data, Data. 
DATA: You do understand, sir, that my interpretation of the symbols
will not be exact? 
PICARD: Yes. Let's get on with it. 
DATA: This would appear to be manual override. 
(He presses the key pad, the globe comes to life and sends an energy
beam to the wall. Other beams join in to create a rectangular 3D image
of a coast scene) 
DATA: That was not manual override. 
PICARD: Demons of Air and Darkness, indeed. 
(The coast becomes the Acropolis, or similar) 
WORF: What is that? 
PICARD: A gateway? 
WORF: These scenes could be holographic images. 
(Data goes towards it) 
PICARD: Be careful. 
(Data sticks his arm into the image. Picard pulls him back) 
PICARD: Data! That was very foolish. 
DATA: But we have established that this is not a holograph. If I step
through and investigate, we could determine whether it is truly a
gateway. 
PICARD: No, Data. You might not be able to get back, and I can't risk
losing you. 
WORF: If it is not illusion, this gate would seem to take us beyond the
confines of this planet. 
PICARD: Is this how the Iconians travelled? Crossing light years as
easily as we would cross a room? Those places could be on worlds in
distant sectors of the galaxy. I think the Iconians might have
out-foxed their enemies. Maybe they didn't all die in the bombardment.
Some of them could have passed through this. This is what Varley
feared. This is what he died for. 
WORF: Sir? 
PICARD: The Romulans could use this technology as a weapon. 
WORF: Like the Iconians did. 
DATA: No, I disagree. Captain, there is nothing in this room to
indicate it was used as a military command centre. Perhaps a
transporter room? 
WORF: But the probe was hostile. 
PICARD: We can't make that assumption. The effect on the Yamato was
devastating, but what if it was by accident, not by design. What I'm
going to say may sound unscientific, but standing on this soil,
breathing in this air, my instincts tell me that we may have got them
wrong. 
WORF: But we do know that the Iconians were conquerors. 
PICARD: But that knowledge was passed down by the descendants of those
who attacked this world. The victors invariably write the history to
their own advantage. There is an unfortunate tendency in many cultures
to fear what they do not understand. It's possible that their enemies,
confronted with this technology, were driven to attack the Iconians out
of fear. 
(An image of the Bridge appears) 
WORF: Sir! 
(And is replaced by a skyscraper) 
WORF: Was that really the Enterprise? 
PICARD: I believe that it was. Gentlemen, we have a way home. 
DATA: Captain, there is a vast underground power source which is
controlled by this console. I believe my triggering of the gateway has
caused a dramatic upsurge in power level. Ah, I have access. 
(He starts tapping at the console, and the energy beam zaps him. Worf
catches Data as he falls backwards) 
PICARD: Data, can you hear me? Data, respond. 
DATA: Captain. 
WORF: Are you all right? 
DATA: No, I am damaged. 
PICARD: How bad is it? 
DATA: The Iconian programme is attempting to rewrite my software.
Physical manifestations, blindness, motor con 
WORF: Sir, without him we have no hope of deciphering the programme.
Captain, the Enterprise again. 
PICARD: How long is the interval? 
WORF: About four minutes, if the cycle holds. 
PICARD: The next time the Enterprise appears, go through it with Data.
Geordi will be able to learn from him. Maybe help him. 
WORF: Sir, we have not yet established that that is truly a gateway. 
PICARD: This will be the test. 
WORF: Aye, sir. 
PICARD: Destroy the tricorder. 
WORF: Sir, it contains everything we've discovered up to this point. 
PICARD: And that is precisely why it must be destroyed. How long? 
WORF: About three minutes. 
PICARD: I'm running out of time. We all are. Data. Data, I have to
destroy this. This control room and its technology must not be allowed
to fall into Romulan hands. 
DATA: I understand, sir. 
PICARD: How! How do I do it? How do I destroy everything? The control
room, the probes, all of it. 
(Worf phasers the tricorder) 
DATA: The power source, sir. 
PICARD: I detonate it. But how? How do I do that? 
DATA: The probes, sir. 
PICARD: Probes? The probes. Launch? I launch the probes? But why?
What's good will that do? 
DATA: The doors, sir. 
PICARD: Doors? 
WORF: Perhaps the probes are in a launch bay. 
PICARD: And if the doors are closed, then the backwash from the rockets
will spill into the power grids and there'll be an overload. 
DATA: Yes, sir. 
PICARD: But the doors will open automatically when the launch begins.
And I will override. 
DATA: Correct, sir. 
PICARD: Which control keys? Damn. Of course, you can't see. 
DATA: Help. 
PICARD: Worf, help him up. 
DATA: Describe, please. 
PICARD: I'm standing directly in front of the gate. To my left there is
a small triangular screen. 
DATA: Right one metre. 
PICARD: Right. Now, to my right is a larger triangular screen. The top
is solid amber. To the left, red. 
DATA: Correct. Key blue, amber, amber, red. 
PICARD: That's the launch sequence? How do I override the doors? 
DATA: Blue, blue, blue. 
PICARD: I hope that's not a stutter. I don't know how long a delay
there will be between the launch and the detonation. I'll hold keying
the launch sequence until you're through the gate. How long until the
Enterprise reappears? 
WORF: Almost time. Captain, you will be killed. 
PICARD: I'll go through the gate. 
WORF: But where will you end up? 
PICARD: Very shortly, anywhere will be preferable to this room. Mister
Worf, I am depending on you. You must get Data back to the Enterprise.
He may be their only hope. 
WORF: Aye, sir. 
(He picks up Data in a fireman's lift. The image changes from the
Romulan bridge to the Enterprise. Worf steps through)

[Bridge]

CREWMAN: Commander! Look! 
RIKER: Worf! What happened? Where's the Captain? 
WORF: We must take Data to Engineering. Hopefully the Captain will
follow. 
[Engineering]

LAFORGE: I don't know how to help him. But
comparing recorded norms for Data to the current readings, it's clear
that all his functions are just going crazy. If we had an expert, a
Maddox, somebody, I 
(The tricorder emits a single tone, and Geordi closes Data's eyes) 
LAFORGE: He's gone.

