PICARD RIKER DATA LAFORGE WORF

[Bridge]

PICARD: Mister La Forge, time is the one thing
which we do not have in abundance. 
(Enterprise arrives at a brown and battered planet) 
PICARD: Analysis, Mister Data. 
DATA: Scanning, sir. 
PICARD: Well, Mister Data? 
DATA: No life-form readings, sir. 
WORF: All major cities have been heavily damaged, and the pattern of
destruction is that consistent with large-scale orbital bombardment. 
PICARD: How long ago? 
DATA: Approximately two hundred thousand years, sir. 
WORF: There is an energy source in the mountains of the smaller
continent. 
PICARD: Magnify. 
RIKER: Is that Iconia? 
PICARD: Captain Varley died believing that it was. 
(There's a little flash from the cross shape inside the crater on the
surface) 
RIKER: Did you see that? 
WORF: Captain. Projectile launched from the planet's surface. 
DATA: Its size and composition match the probe which scanned the
Yamato, sir. 
PICARD: Shields up. Prepare a tractor beam. Mister La Forge, I'm going
to assist you in your research. A probe has been launched from Iconia. 
[Engineering]

PICARD [OC]: I'm going to capture it. 
LAFORGE: No, sir, wait! Captain! Captain! 
(But the comm. system has gone down, so Geordi has to run to the Bridge
instead. The door refuses to open so he heads off another way)

[Corridor]

LAFORGE: Coming through! 
[Turbolift]

LAFORGE: Bridge! 
(The turbolift takes of sideways so quickly it pins him to the door) 
LAFORGE: Emergency stop! 
(Then it goes the other way) 
LAFORGE: Stop! Damn it! 
(Now he's up against the ceiling, then the floor and his visor falls
off. Heck of a roller coaster ride, this one) 
[Bridge]

WORF: Tractor beam ready, sir. 
(Geordi comes flying out of the turbolift and tumbles head over heels
down the slope) 
RIKER: Geordi, are you all right? 
LAFORGE: Destroy the probe, sir. Quickly! 
PICARD: Worf, target phasers. 
WORF: Phasers locked on target. 
PICARD: Fire! 
(The blue globe disintegrates in ball of flames) 
PICARD: Welcome to the Bridge, Mister La Forge. 
LAFORGE: Thank you, sir. If that thing had managed to scan us, we never
would have had any chance of saving the Enterprise.

[Observation lounge]

LAFORGE: That probe was a transmitter sending an
alien computer programme. The same
programme that is currently aboard the Enterprise trying to rewrite our
software in its own image. We have two completely incompatible computer
systems trying to interact. 
RIKER: So that's why the ship's instruments have become so erratic. 
LAFORGE: Yes. 
PICARD: What can you do? 
LAFORGE: Not very much. The Iconian programme is so sophisticated I may
never understand it. 
DATA: Consider, Captain, this programme has entered an alien data base,
ours, and in less than seven hours has managed to not only learn our
systems, but has begun to reprogram our computer. 
PICARD: And so the earlier probe was responsible for the Yamato's
destruction? 
LAFORGE: Yes, but only in as much as it was the probe that transmitted
the programme. 
RIKER: But we weren't scanned by that probe. How did this thing get
aboard the Enterprise? 
DATA: We downloaded the Yamato log, and contained in the log was the
programme. 
PICARD: Why didn't we suffered the same fate? 
LAFORGE: The programme affected all of the Yamato's systems
simultaneously. But with us, it was deposited within a specific section
of our mainframe, so it's having to work its way out from that
location. That gives us a little breathing space. 
RIKER: Not much. The injury reports are increasing too, sir. 
DATA: Doctor Pulaski is unwilling to trust the turbolifts. She is
sending medical teams through the access tunnels. 
LAFORGE: Captain, the Enterprise computer system is a lot like our own
bodies with voluntary and involuntary system. Now, probably ninety
percent of what happens on this ship is done automatically. Completely
out of our control. We're sitting on a bomb that could go off any
second, or maybe never. 
