RIKER WORF VARLEY WESLEY PICARD DATA

[Bridge]

PICARD: How long to rendezvous, Mister Crusher? 
WESLEY: Four minutes and thirty three seconds, sir. 
PICARD: Status of download, Mister Data? 
DATA: The Yamato log should be in our computer by rendezvous, sir. 
RIKER: Have you nailed down our little hiccup yet? 
DATA: Sir? 
RIKER: The odd reading? 
DATA: No, sir. It might be due to problems currently being experienced
by the Yamato. 
PICARD: Trouble, Number One? 
RIKER: I'm not sure, sir. Are we alone out here, Worf? 
WORF: Yes, sir. There are no other vessels in the area except the
Yamato, which is coming into visual range now. 
PICARD: At last. 
WORF: Transmission from the Yamato, sir. 
PICARD: On viewer. 
(A tired looking Captain sits in his seat) 
PICARD: Donald, what's a nice Starfleet Captain like you doing in a
place like this? 
VARLEY [on viewscreen]: It's good to see you again, Jean-Luc, despite
your antique humour. I only hope your people are able to help us.
Malfunctions are becoming serious. We lost an engineering team when the
computer shut down a forcefield in an open shuttlebay. Eighteen people.

RIKER: Do you have any idea what caused this, sir? 
VARLEY [on viewscreen]: None. They are affecting every system
simultaneously. It's like the ship has suddenly decided to fall apart.
It's beginning to make me think we should have run these Galaxy Class
ships across a few more drawing boards before we built one. 
PICARD: You believe it's a design flaw? 
VARLEY [on viewscreen]: I don't know. I'm grasping at straws here. All
I know is we've got to get it fixed, and before I lose more than an
engineering team. 
RIKER: Do you wish to evacuate any non-essential personnel to the
Enterprise, sir? 
VARLEY [on viewscreen]: No. No, that would be premature. 
PICARD: Donald, we'll get our teams to work on it immediately. I'm sure
neither of us feels too comfortable sitting around in the Neutral Zone.

VARLEY [on viewscreen]: I know what you're thinking, what the hell am I
doing here? Well, I had heard rumours about a couple of archaeological
digs that started making the Iconians sound a lot less like legend. I
did a little investigating, and I located their homeworld. 
PICARD: In the Neutral Zone? 
VARLEY [on viewscreen]: In the Neutral Zone. 
PICARD: Donald, that was quite a risk to run to satisfy archaeological
curiosity. 
VARLEY [on viewscreen]: The risk would be in allowing the Romulans to
locate Iconia. Fortunately, I got there first. It's a virtually dead
planet, but enough technology remains to give the Romulans an edge if
they should find it. 
(The picture starts to break up) 
PICARD: Donald, your transmission is breaking up. Mister Data, try and
clean that up. 
WORF: Sir, there is an energy build-up in the Yamato's Engineering
section. 
PICARD: Yamato, this is the Enterprise. Yamato, come in. 
WORF: Captain, magnetic seals in the antimatter chamber are decaying! 
PICARD: Captain! Donald, come in! 
(The viewscreen image of Donald Varley is replaced by one of the
Yamato, going supernova) 
PICARD: Shields up. 
(A piece of the ship comes straight for them, as the saucer section
glides to the right and burns up) 
WORF: Sir! 
DATA: Sensors indicate no life readings, sir. 
WORF: Captain. Another vessel is coming within sensor range. It is
Romulan.

Captain's log, supplemental. The Yamato's entire
crew and their families, more than a thousand people, have been lost.
Circumstances unfortunately permit us no pause for grief.

