PICARD [OC] LAFORGE PICARD LAFORGE [OC] PULASKI DATA
just exact informed increase hypo future let want totally

[Sickbay]

(The second Picard is on a bed. Kate is walking
around with a medical tricorder when Picard and Troi enter) 
PULASKI: I'm just starting a complete medical work-up. His vital signs
are distorted. Some of the indicators are totally depressed, others are
fluctuating wildly. I can't explain any of it. But he is alive. The
restraints are for his own protection. 
PICARD: Have you been able to determine why he's still unconscious? 
PULASKI: No. but I have been able to rule out any head injury. 
PICARD: Wake him. 
(Pulaski gives him a hypo, and the readings on the wall plummet into
the red. She rushes for another hypo, and the signs recover) 
PICARD: What happened? 
PULASKI: Apparently, the normal stimulant had the opposite effect. I'll
have to try something else.

[Shuttlebay two]

LAFORGE: All right, Data. I think I've got it now.
That ought to give you something. Making this power adjustment is very
tricky. By all rights, this connection should blow all the shuttle's
circuits. 
DATA: Perhaps you had better step out of the way. 
LAFORGE: All right, but remember, you're not indestructible yourself,
you know. 
DATA: Increase the power. 
LAFORGE: Powering up. 
DATA: Adjust the invert two percent positive. 
LAFORGE: Two percent positive. It's the right decision, but it's having
the opposite effect. 
DATA: Yes. 
LAFORGE: I don't understand. I can't think of anything that would cause
the circuit to change so radically. 
DATA: Adjust the invert two percent negative. 
LAFORGE: Okay. Two percent negative. That's it. It shouldn't work, but
it does. Hey, Data. Take a look at the stardate. 42679.5. Captain. 
PICARD [OC]: Go ahead. 
LAFORGE: Captain, we've been able to reactivate the shuttle, and the
on-board clock indicates that the shuttle is 
[Sickbay]

LAFORGE [OC]: Six hours in front of us. Captain, do
you read me? If the shuttle's from six hours into the future, then so
is the other Captain Picard.

Captain's log, supplemental. Part of the mystery
has been solved. The reason there are two number five shuttlecrafts is
because one of them is from the future. Six hours, to be exact. And so,
presumably, is the facsimile of me.

[Sickbay]

PICARD: Try to wake him, again. 
(Pulaski gives the injection, and the second Picard opens his eyes. He
seems in pain) 
PICARD: No! 
PULASKI: It's a only a sedative. 
PICARD: I know what it is. Don't sedate him. Let him be. Please. Let
him to remain conscious. 
PULASKI: I have never seen anything like this. Are you all right? 
PICARD: I'm fine, Doctor. Save your ministrations for your patient. I
want a staff meeting in five minutes. Doctor, I assume you will want to
remain here. 
PULASKI: Yes, I will monitor the conference from here. 
PICARD: Keep me informed of any changes, no matter how small.

Captain's log, supplemental. I've been informed
that Mister Data has recovered the logs from the duplicate
shuttlecraft. I am more than apprehensive to play back a log which will
not be recorded for several hours. 
