PICARD [OC] LAFORGE PICARD LAFORGE [OC] PULASKI DATA
hours look ahead rule compatible future enterprise stimulant mean

[Shuttlebay two]

LAFORGE: There you go. You should have power now. 
(Data touches a panel, and sparks fly) 
LAFORGE: What happened? 
DATA: The polarity is not compatible. 
LAFORGE: That's not possible. The connection's idiot proof. 
DATA: The power requirements of the shuttle do not match those of the
Enterprise. We will need a variable phase inverter, to align the power
from the Enterprise to the circuits of the shuttle. 
LAFORGE: Data, what do you think is going on here? I don't mean just
with the shuttle, I mean everything. 
DATA: I do not have enough information. 
[Sickbay]

(The second Picard is on a bed. Kate is walking
around with a medical tricorder when Picard and Troi enter) 
PULASKI: I'm just starting a complete medical work-up. His vital signs
are distorted. Some of the indicators are totally depressed, others are
fluctuating wildly. I can't explain any of it. But he is alive. The
restraints are for his own protection. 
PICARD: Have you been able to determine why he's still unconscious? 
PULASKI: No. but I have been able to rule out any head injury. 
PICARD: Wake him. 
(Pulaski gives him a hypo, and the readings on the wall plummet into
the red. She rushes for another hypo, and the signs recover) 
PICARD: What happened? 
PULASKI: Apparently, the normal stimulant had the opposite effect. I'll
have to try something else.

[Shuttlebay two]

LAFORGE: All right, Data. I think I've got it now.
That ought to give you something. Making this power adjustment is very
tricky. By all rights, this connection should blow all the shuttle's
circuits. 
DATA: Perhaps you had better step out of the way. 
LAFORGE: All right, but remember, you're not indestructible yourself,
you know. 
DATA: Increase the power. 
LAFORGE: Powering up. 
DATA: Adjust the invert two percent positive. 
LAFORGE: Two percent positive. It's the right decision, but it's having
the opposite effect. 
DATA: Yes. 
LAFORGE: I don't understand. I can't think of anything that would cause
the circuit to change so radically. 
DATA: Adjust the invert two percent negative. 
LAFORGE: Okay. Two percent negative. That's it. It shouldn't work, but
it does. Hey, Data. Take a look at the stardate. 42679.5. Captain. 
PICARD [OC]: Go ahead. 
LAFORGE: Captain, we've been able to reactivate the shuttle, and the
on-board clock indicates that the shuttle is 
[Sickbay]

LAFORGE [OC]: Six hours in front of us. Captain, do
you read me? If the shuttle's from six hours into the future, then so
is the other Captain Picard.

Captain's log, supplemental. Part of the mystery
has been solved. The reason there are two number five shuttlecrafts is
because one of them is from the future. Six hours, to be exact. And so,
presumably, is the facsimile of me.

