RIKER LAFORGE WORF PICARD LAFORGE [OC] WORF [OC] DATA
pre beam person rudimentary oh thing experiments nasty define

[Ready room]

(Picard has been to stare at the shuttlecraft on
his own) 
PICARD: What force or phenomenon could cause the shuttle to be thrown
back in time? 
RIKER: None that we've encountered. In theory, accelerating beyond warp
ten. 
PICARD: Using the gravitational pull of a star to slingshot back in
time. Is that what happened here? 
RIKER: The shuttle doesn't have warp capability. 
PICARD: No. So some external force was needed. 
RIKER: We've never encountered a natural force that powerful. Why only
six hours? Why not a day? Or a year? 
PICARD: Are you saying there was some conscious mind at work here? 
RIKER: There's no evidence either way. 
PICARD: The Traveller moved through time using the power of his mind. 
RIKER: I don't think that's the case here. 
PICARD: No. And Manheim's experiments with gravity and time were
rudimentary, and uncontrollable. 
RIKER: Captain, I think this is one instance where you should suppress
your natural tendencies. 
PICARD: Oh, really? 
RIKER: One of your strengths is your ability to evaluate the dynamics
of a situation, and then take a definitive pre-emptive step, take
charge. Now, you're frustrated because you not only can't see the
solution, you can't even define the problem. 
PICARD: Go on. 
RIKER: What we're facing is neither a person nor a place. At least not
yet. It's time. 
PICARD: You're saying I should just sit down, shut up and wait. 
RIKER: I wouldn't have put it exactly like that. 
PICARD: Not something I do easily. 
RIKER: Your Persian flaw. 
PICARD: Yes, perhaps it is. 
(There's a nasty noise) 
WORF [OC]: Captain to the Bridge.

[Bridge]

PICARD: Report. 
WORF: This energy vortex has just appeared beneath us. There was no
warning. 
(Pretty blue swirly thing on the viewscreen. The Enterprise is sitting
at the top of a space tornado) 
RIKER: Well, at least the waiting's over.

Captain's log, supplemental. We have apparently
intersected with something.

[Bridge]

DATA: It is similar to our tractor beam, sir, only
much more powerful. 
LAFORGE [OC]: Bridge, this is Lieutenant La Forge. 
RIKER: Bridge. 
[Engineering]

LAFORGE: The pull on the Enterprise is steady. I'm
having to hold the warp engines at thirty percent in order to maintain
our present position. 
