TROI WORF PICARD LAFORGE [OC] RIKER PULASKI WORF [OC] DATA
sir look needed make la pressure say went problem

[Sickbay]

PICARD: How is he? 
PULASKI: His vital signs are more normal. Which is to say, more like
ours. He is calmer. 
PICARD: He's aware of me. 
PULASKI: Perhaps, in some fashion. 
PICARD: But he knows where he is, who's here with him. 
PULASKI: I doubt it. 
PICARD: What went wrong? You know, don't you? What did you do? What
happened? Why did you leave the ship? Don't turn away. Look at me.
Picard! Look at me! 
TROI: Captain, he doesn't understand you. 
PICARD: He knows I'm here. 
TROI: Yes, but in a nightmare of disjointed images and half-heard
voices. He's in another dimension, looking at us across a great chasm.
And he's feeling remorse at what he has witnessed. He's afraid. 
PICARD: What is he afraid of? Damn you. Help me! Why did you leave the
ship? 
TROI: It's no use, Captain. He can't answer you. 
PULASKI: When we get closer to his time, he may be able to. 
PICARD: Are you still convinced he's me? 
TROI: Yes, but you're not convinced. 
PICARD: Not in the slightest. Except for his features, there is nothing
about him that I find familiar. Counsellor, I want you to stay with
him. He will be able to communicate with you before any on else. 
(Picard leaves) 
PULASKI: I don't know how long anyone could take this kind of anxiety
state. There has to be a breaking point. 
TROI: I think he's handling it very well. 
PULASKI: He has a lot of anger. 
TROI: Yes, because of what he represents. 
PULASKI: And what is that? 
TROI: Doubt. He's afraid that seeing him here and knowing what happened
to the Enterprise will make him timid, or worse, make him to hesitate. 
PULASKI: Part of my job is to anticipate problems. My duty is to the
Captain, but first to the ship and its crew. 
TROI: Doctor, the Captain is quite capable of command decisions. 
PULASKI: Yes, for now. But this situation has put him under extreme
pressure of a unique and very personal kind. We both know that pressure
will only increase. You said yourself that he already has doubt. 
TROI: Which is understandable, and healthy. 
PULASKI: And could be potentially paralysing. If we begin to see signs
that he's acting in an irrational manner, I have the authority and the
duty to relieve him. 
TROI: I don't think that will be necessary. 
PULASKI: I hope you're right.

[Ready room]

(Picard has been to stare at the shuttlecraft on
his own) 
PICARD: What force or phenomenon could cause the shuttle to be thrown
back in time? 
RIKER: None that we've encountered. In theory, accelerating beyond warp
ten. 
PICARD: Using the gravitational pull of a star to slingshot back in
time. Is that what happened here? 
RIKER: The shuttle doesn't have warp capability. 
PICARD: No. So some external force was needed. 
RIKER: We've never encountered a natural force that powerful. Why only
six hours? Why not a day? Or a year? 
PICARD: Are you saying there was some conscious mind at work here? 
RIKER: There's no evidence either way. 
PICARD: The Traveller moved through time using the power of his mind. 
RIKER: I don't think that's the case here. 
PICARD: No. And Manheim's experiments with gravity and time were
rudimentary, and uncontrollable. 
RIKER: Captain, I think this is one instance where you should suppress
your natural tendencies. 
PICARD: Oh, really? 
RIKER: One of your strengths is your ability to evaluate the dynamics
of a situation, and then take a definitive pre-emptive step, take
charge. Now, you're frustrated because you not only can't see the
solution, you can't even define the problem. 
PICARD: Go on. 
RIKER: What we're facing is neither a person nor a place. At least not
yet. It's time. 
PICARD: You're saying I should just sit down, shut up and wait. 
RIKER: I wouldn't have put it exactly like that. 
PICARD: Not something I do easily. 
RIKER: Your Persian flaw. 
PICARD: Yes, perhaps it is. 
(There's a nasty noise) 
WORF [OC]: Captain to the Bridge.

[Bridge]

PICARD: Report. 
WORF: This energy vortex has just appeared beneath us. There was no
warning. 
(Pretty blue swirly thing on the viewscreen. The Enterprise is sitting
at the top of a space tornado) 
RIKER: Well, at least the waiting's over.

Captain's log, supplemental. We have apparently
intersected with something.

[Bridge]

DATA: It is similar to our tractor beam, sir, only
much more powerful. 
LAFORGE [OC]: Bridge, this is Lieutenant La Forge. 
RIKER: Bridge. 
