PICARD [OC] RIKER LAFORGE WORF PICARD LAFORGE [OC] PULASKI DATA
presumably fabric doctor make informed lounge thing want meet

[Shuttlebay two]

LAFORGE: All right, Data. I think I've got it now.
That ought to give you something. Making this power adjustment is very
tricky. By all rights, this connection should blow all the shuttle's
circuits. 
DATA: Perhaps you had better step out of the way. 
LAFORGE: All right, but remember, you're not indestructible yourself,
you know. 
DATA: Increase the power. 
LAFORGE: Powering up. 
DATA: Adjust the invert two percent positive. 
LAFORGE: Two percent positive. It's the right decision, but it's having
the opposite effect. 
DATA: Yes. 
LAFORGE: I don't understand. I can't think of anything that would cause
the circuit to change so radically. 
DATA: Adjust the invert two percent negative. 
LAFORGE: Okay. Two percent negative. That's it. It shouldn't work, but
it does. Hey, Data. Take a look at the stardate. 42679.5. Captain. 
PICARD [OC]: Go ahead. 
LAFORGE: Captain, we've been able to reactivate the shuttle, and the
on-board clock indicates that the shuttle is 
[Sickbay]

LAFORGE [OC]: Six hours in front of us. Captain, do
you read me? If the shuttle's from six hours into the future, then so
is the other Captain Picard.

Captain's log, supplemental. Part of the mystery
has been solved. The reason there are two number five shuttlecrafts is
because one of them is from the future. Six hours, to be exact. And so,
presumably, is the facsimile of me.

[Sickbay]

PICARD: Try to wake him, again. 
(Pulaski gives the injection, and the second Picard opens his eyes. He
seems in pain) 
PICARD: No! 
PULASKI: It's a only a sedative. 
PICARD: I know what it is. Don't sedate him. Let him be. Please. Let
him to remain conscious. 
PULASKI: I have never seen anything like this. Are you all right? 
PICARD: I'm fine, Doctor. Save your ministrations for your patient. I
want a staff meeting in five minutes. Doctor, I assume you will want to
remain here. 
PULASKI: Yes, I will monitor the conference from here. 
PICARD: Keep me informed of any changes, no matter how small.

Captain's log, supplemental. I've been informed
that Mister Data has recovered the logs from the duplicate
shuttlecraft. I am more than apprehensive to play back a log which will
not be recorded for several hours. 
[Observation lounge]

LAFORGE: Captain, we've retrieved all we are going
to get from the shuttle logs, including the last visual records.
Everything before that is just a jumble. 
PICARD: Show me. 
LAFORGE: The distortion is because we had to use a phase inverter to
retrieve the logs. The quality will improve slightly. 
(We see Riker standing in the shuttlebay as the craft takes off. There
is a wormhole effect, and a bolt of energy hits Enterprise, knocking
her against the tunnel side, and she blows up) 
DATA: According to the shuttle log, the Enterprise was destroyed three
hours nineteen minutes from now. 
LAFORGE: Captain, we have a portion of the last log entry. It's audio
only. 
PICARD [OC]: Captain's personal log, supplemental. I have just
witnessed the total destruction of the USS Enterprise with a loss of
all hands, save one. Me. 
LAFORGE: All attempts to obtain further information from the shuttle
have failed. 
RIKER: Well, at least now we have something to go on. 
LAFORGE: I just don't understand how you could have ended up in a
shuttlecraft while the Enterprise was being destroyed. 
WORF: Nor I. The last thing you would do is leave the Bridge of the
Enterprise during an emergency. 
PICARD: Yes. All right, let's proceed on the premise that what we have
just seen happened, and that in less than four hours from now, the
Enterprise will be destroyed, and somehow, although this is
unfathomable, I and I alone escape. Discussion. 
RIKER: Our destination is the Endicor system. We're due to arrive in
three days. The charts show nothing of consequence, certainly nothing
to threaten the Enterprise, between here and there. 
WORF: Sensors indicated no other vessels, Federation or otherwise, in
this area. 
PICARD: Data? 
DATA: I have nothing to offer. There is not enough information upon
which to base a hypothesis. 
LAFORGE: Well, the shuttle apparently came from somewhere up ahead, so
Rather than continuing on this course, maybe we should stop here and
let whatever is out there come to us. 
RIKER: We may already be too late. 
LAFORGE: What are you saying? That stopping, turning right or left, or
even reversing our course, would be pointless? 
RIKER: When we brought the shuttle and the other Picard on board, we
committed to a sequence of events which may be unalterable. 
PICARD: Yes, this is not a rock on the trail which once seen can easily
be avoided. This is much more complex. 
WORF: There is the theory of the moebius. A twist in the fabric of
space where time becomes a loop from which there is no escape. 
LAFORGE: So, when we reach that point, whatever happened will happen
again. The Enterprise will be destroyed, the other Picard will be sent
back to meet with us and we do it all over again. Sounds like someone's
idea of hell to me. 
RIKER: Well, I know this much. We can't avoid the future. 
PICARD: Agreed. So let's continue on course. Somewhere out there
something will happen. A decision will be made during the course of
which, I will be separated from the Enterprise. At the time, the
decision will seem to be correct, but it won't be. We have to
anticipate and not make, not make the same mistake once. Something is
waiting for us out there. Let's try and determine what it is, as
quickly as possible.

