PICARD [OC] RIKER LAFORGE WORF PULASKI DATA
wouldn afraid owon stop poured ennan starbase mere flair

  [Riker's
quarters] 
(Will is setting places at a table and whisking an
egg in a bowl when the doorbell chimes) 
RIKER: Come on in. 
(Data and Geordi arrive with a portable stove, and Pulaski follows with
a flask. Finally, Worf) 
RIKER: Excellent. Exactly what I need. Ah, Mister Worf. And the good
Doctor, bearing gifts. 
PULASKI: Ale from Ennan Six. Your omelettes deserve no less. 
DATA: This is not an efficient method for the preparation of
sustenance. 
RIKER: No, you're right, Data. The ship's computer would be more
efficient, but it wouldn't allow for the subtlety needed for great
cooking. It would give you all of the ingredients in pre-determined
measurements, but wouldn't allow for flair or individuality. And Data,
as we both know, flair is what marks the difference between artistry
and mere competence. 
PULASKI: For much of the history of mankind, the breaking of bread was
a symbol of friendship and community. Something we have gotten away
from in the twenty-fourth century. 
(The beaten egg is poured onto the hot plate) 
PULASKI: Ah, you have a practiced hand, Commander. 
RIKER: Yes, I have my father to thank. 
PULASKI: Your father liked to cook? 
RIKER: No, he hated it. That's why he left the chore to me. 
WORF: It is my understanding that in most human families, the woman
shares in the cooking. 
RIKER: There were only the two of us. I never knew my mother. She died
when I was very young. 
LAFORGE: Where did you get these eggs? 
RIKER: On our last stop. 
LAFORGE: At Starbase Seventy Three? 
RIKER: Yes. 
LAFORGE: What kind of eggs did you say these were? 
RIKER: Owon. For you, Data, something special. Don't be afraid. They
won't bite you. And for you, Mister Worf. 
(Geordi takes the first mouthful, and starts coughing.) 
RIKER: A cook's only as good as his ingredients. 
(Kate pulls a disgusted face. Worf clears his plate) 
WORF: Delicious. 
PICARD [OC]: Number One. 
RIKER: Go ahead. 
PICARD [OC]: I would appreciate you joining me on the Bridge. 
RIKER: Right away, sir.

