BOTH TROI LAFORGE WORF KYLE PULASKI RIKER DATA
knob sons noise wall maybe fathers thinking say continue

[Holodeck] 
WORF: An Ascension ceremony. 
LAFORGE: Happy anniversary, Worf. 
DATA: Shall we begin? 
WORF: I am ready. 
(He steps between the two lines of warriors) 
WORF: DaHjaj SuvwI''e' jIH. tIgwIj Sa'angNIS. 'Iw bIQtIqDaq jIjaH.
Today I am a Warrior. I must show you my heart. I travel the river of
blood. 
(The first two warriors apply their painstiks to his sides, and he
screams in pain) 
DATA: The true test of Klingon strength is to admit one's most profound
feelings while under extreme duress. 
WORF: jIbechrup may' vIlos. 
(The second pair apply their painstiks) 
WORF: The battle is mine. I crave only the blood of the enemy.
HIHIvqa'. 
(Third pair. He falls to his knees and O'Brien holds Pulaski back) 
WORF: The bile of the vanquished flows over my hands. May'pequ' moH. 
(The fourth and final pair use their painstiks twice and he collapses
in front of his 'family') 
WORF: Thank you.

[Observation lounge]

TROI: Is Lieutenant Worf all right? 
PULASKI: He's never been happier. 
TROI: So it was a good ceremony? 
PULASKI: Let's just say that I was not about to stay for refreshments. 
TROI: Klingon culture is not in your taste? 
PULASKI: I'm just glad that humans have progressed beyond the need for
barbaric display. 
TROI: Have they? Commander Riker and his father are in the gymnasium,
about to engage in barbarism of their own. 
PULASKI: Don't remind me. It's something of which I do not approve. 
TROI: In spite of human evolution, there are still some traits that are
endemic to gender. 
PULASKI: You think that they're going to knock each other's brains out
because they're men? 
TROI: Human males are unique. Fathers continue to regard their sons as
children, even into adulthood. And sons continue to chafe against what
they perceive as their fathers' expectations of them. 
PULASKI: It's almost as if they never really grow up at all, isn't it? 
TROI: Perhaps that's part of their charm, and why we find them so
attractive. 
PULASKI: Particularly men like Commander Riker. 
TROI: And his father. 
PULASKI: I hope they don't hurt each other.

[Gymnasium]

KYLE: Anbo-jyutsu. The ultimate evolution if the
martial arts. 
(They are wearing plastic suits of armour and carrying staffs with a
large knob at one end. They are standing on a raised circular ring,
decorated with oriental characters) 
RIKER: I remember my early lessons. 
KYLE: You could never get used to the sightless factor, or to losing. 
RIKER: True, but I've had fifteen years to practise. 
KYLE: Well, let's see if you've learned anything. 
(They lower their opaque visors) 
BOTH: Onegaishimasu. 
(They circle, the small ends of the staves making a noise when they
come close. Riker takes the first swings with the padded end, then
Kyle. Then they return to trying to locate each other by the noise.
Riker hits Kyle on the back, disarms him and sends him flying out of
the ring) 
KYLE: Well, you've been practising. 
RIKER: And remembering. You should have been the one to die, not her.
Yoroshiku-onegaishimasu. 
KYLE: Good. Get it all out. Yoroshiku-onegaishimasu. 
(This time, Kyle gets in the first hit, and Riker has to defend himself
by holding his staff over his head) 
RIKER: Matta! (Kyle backs away) I had you. 
KYLE: Listen, Will. You were too young to understand and I was too hurt
to explain. 
RIKER: You were never too hurt for anything. 
KYLE: She was your mother, but she was my wife. And when she died all
that kept me going was you. 
RIKER: You had a strange way of showing it. 
KYLE: I came here thinking we could talk this out, but maybe you're
right. Maybe I am no father, and you're no son.
And this this fight is all we have left. 
(Another round, and Kyle knocked Riker on his back) 
RIKER: Wait! 
KYLE: What is it now? 
RIKER: You can't do that. 
KYLE: What? 
RIKER: Hachidan kiritsu! It's illegal. 
KYLE: You're kidding? 
RIKER: All those years. That's why I never won. You were cheating. 
KYLE: It worked, didn't it? Kept you coming back for more. 
RIKER: Incredible. You cheated me. How'd you get away with it? 
KYLE: You were just a kid. By the time you were twelve years old, I
knew I couldn't take you but I had to keep you interested, I had to
keep you challenged, didn't I? 
RIKER: I always hated you for that. 
KYLE: Damn it, Will. You were barely out of diapers when she died. You
hardly knew her! I'd loved her. Of course you carried the pain. So did
I. I should have explained this to you a long time ago, but it hurt too
much. Then the wall grew up between us. And living there, you and me,
the wall got bigger. You know, it's funny. I can talk to a whole
roomful of admirals about anything in the galaxy, but I can't talk to
you about how I feel. 
RIKER: How do you feel? 
KYLE: How do you think? I love you, son. I've got to get back to the
Starbase. 
RIKER: I know. I'm glad you came. 
(They finally embrace) 
KYLE: Be careful now, okay?

