PICARD TROI KYLE RIKER
exotic consider taste decision aren instantaneously stroyerian excellence women

[Doctor's office]

KYLE: Why do I get the feeling that this is a
set-up? 
TROI: Because you are intelligent, wise and quite correct. 
KYLE: Well, I've never been set up better, that's for sure 
TROI: You're also very anxious about something. It's Will, isn't it?
You're not as close to him as you'd like to be. 
KYLE: Oh, I don't know. We both have pretty good taste in women,
wouldn't you say? 
TROI: I'd like to help you if I can. If you'll let me. 
KYLE: Fine. What is it you want from me? I came here to bury the
hatchet with my son only to find out the ground was frozen solid. 
TROI: You don't seem to be the kind of man to give up so easily. 
KYLE: I didn't say I was giving up. It would just be nice to get a
little something from him. 
TROI: What is it you want from him? 
KYLE: I don't know. Acknowledgement, maybe or 
TROI: Respect is earned, not bestowed. 
KYLE: Respect? I don't need that from him. 
TROI: Perhaps you want him to be proud of you. You carry great pride in
his accomplishments. 
KYLE: Absolutely. Look at him. First Officer of the Enterprise, just
been offered his first command. 
TROI: Yet you covet his success. 
KYLE: Please. He'd be lucky to have the career I've had. 
TROI: True, you're well respected in your field. 
KYLE: I may have something of a reputation for excellence 
TROI: And false humility. 
KYLE: My guess is that Will finds you pretty fascinating. Candour seems
to be a trait he admires. 
TROI: Honesty is the trait he admires most. And you should honestly
consider why you're so competitive with your own son. 
KYLE: Competitive? Maybe in the past. But I've come here to help Will
prepare for his first task as captain. 
TROI: Are you sure he'll accept such a dangerous assignment? 
KYLE: He'll accept it just because it is dangerous. 
TROI: How can you be so sure? 
KYLE: Because I would. And we aren't so different, Will and I.

[Riker's quarters]

PICARD: You've seen your mission briefing? 
RIKER: Yes, I have. 
PICARD: Any questions? 
RIKER: No, other than a question about the Ares's First Officer. 
PICARD: Oh, yes. His name is Flaherty. 
RIKER: Yes. The briefing mentions something about an uncanny linguistic
skill. 
PICARD: That is an understatement, Number One. The last time I saw
Commander Flaherty, he spoke forty languages. As I recall, among the
more exotic were Romulan, Klingon, Giamon, Stroyerian. 
RIKER: He speaks forty languages? 
PICARD: He has this unique ability of instantaneously interpreting and
extrapolating any verbal communication that he hears. You will find him
very useful in Sector Vega-Omicron. 
RIKER: Yes, I'm sure I will. 
(Doorbell) 
RIKER: Come in. 
KYLE: Oh, Captain Picard, at last. I'd like to thank you for all the
help you've been to my son. 
PICARD: My only regret is that your reunion marks Will's farewell. 
KYLE: But he's ready for this command. 
PICARD: Oh, yes, I have no doubt. 
KYLE: Captain, may I have a word with my son? 
PICARD: Yes, of course. Excuse me, gentlemen. 
(Picard leaves) 
RIKER: I won't be pushed into this decision. 
KYLE: Oh, come on, Will. Don't you think you're ready for the Ares? 
RIKER: Starfleet does. 
KYLE: Of course. Because you're the best candidate for the job. I only
want you to know I'm here if you need me. 
RIKER: I've been on my own since I was fifteen. I can take care of
myself. 
KYLE: Please, spare me the pain of your childhood. I hung in for
thirteen years. If that wasn't enough, it's just too bad.

