TROI LAFORGE WORF PICARD RIKER PULASKI WESLEY RIKER [OC] DATA
mystery enters metaphor lead pressure scan wes talking regular

[Observation lounge]

PICARD: This is Commander Riker's meeting. 
RIKER: I'll need your advice and recommendations. As you know, I've
been given the responsibility of overseeing Wesley's education. To
further that goal, I would like to put him in charge of the planetary
mineral surveys. 
PULASKI: It's a big job with a lot of responsibility. 
RIKER: The game isn't big enough unless it scares you a little. 
LAFORGE: To do the job, Wesley's going to need a team. It takes command
presence to lead. Do you think he's ready for that? 
TROI: Leadership grows from self-confidence, which is also part of a
Starfleet officer's education. 
PICARD: All of this is true, but there is an old horse trainer's adage
about putting too much weight on a young back. We don't want him to
break under pressure. 
PULASKI: We seem to be shifting the focus here. Are we talking about a
young officer on the fast track to the Academy, or are we talking about
a young man that we are guiding through adolescence and into adulthood?

TROI: You can't guide someone into adulthood. The experiences are
unique to each person. Whether Wes succeeds or fails, he will learn
from the experience. 
PULASKI: I agree. I'm just questioning the speed at which we're moving.

LAFORGE: You think we're pushing him too hard? 
PULASKI: I think that's a valid concern. 
PICARD: Tempering is taken to extremes. 
PULASKI: He is a boy, not a sword. 
PICARD: Who will one day be a man and, to extend the metaphor, will
need a fine edge that won't dull at the first touch of resistance. 
RIKER: Sooner or later he'll have to feel the burden of command. Ensign
Crusher.

[Bridge]

RIKER [OC]: Report to the Observation Lounge.

[Observation lounge]

(Wesley enters) 
RIKER: Wesley, I've assigned you the command of the planetary mineral
surveys. 
WESLEY: Sir? Thank you, sir. 
RIKER: You may not thank me once you see how much work it entails.
Assemble a team, and take a look at the records on the Drema quadrant.
There's a mystery here. We've got to solve it. 
WESLEY: Yes, sir. A team, sir? 
PICARD: Ensign, this is a serious responsibility. 
WESLEY: I know, sir. 
PICARD: These officers are here to assist you. Not judge, help you. You
should make use of them. They are a valuable resource. And by the way,
I respect an officer who is prepared to admit ignorance and ask a
question, rather than one who out of pride will blunder blindly
forward. 
WESLEY: I understand, sir. 
RIKER: Ensign. You're dismissed. 
WESLEY: I'll try not to disappoint you.

[Bridge]

(Data is working at a rear station. There are
components and tools scattered on the floor) 
WORF: Is this part of your regular duties? 
DATA: No, it is a personal project. I have reset the sensors to scan
for frequencies outside their usual range. 
WORF: Such as? 
DATA: The dips and peaks of the galaxy's magnetic field, organic
molecules in nebular clouds, energetic cosmic rays. 
WORF: Interesting. Would these scans also detect artificial
transmissions as well as naturally occurring signals? 
DATA: Of course. 
WORF: Good. 
DATA: Those signals are very faint and difficult to distinguish from
background noise. That is why I am boosting the power. 
(Worf knocks over a circuit board with his foot) 
DATA: I will be removing that equipment to my quarters. 
WORF: Good.

