RIKER WOMAN SARJENKA [OC] LAFORGE WORF DATA [OC] PICARD TROI PULASKI WESLEY COMPUTER DAVIES DATA
government ages interstellar authority hand arab won moral issue

[Meadow]

(Picard has finally got out for a canter on his
Arab steed) 
PICARD: Data? 
DATA: An excellent steed, sir. Sorry to disturb you, Captain. 
PICARD: It's quite all right. It must be important, or you wouldn't be
here. 
DATA: Yes, sir, it is important. Very. Eight weeks ago I received a
transmission, a simple four word message, 'Is anybody out there?' I
answered it. 
PICARD: There is a loneliness inherent in that whisper from the
darkness. 
DATA: Yes, sir. I am glad that you understand, sir. 
PICARD: But it didn't end there. 
DATA: No, sir. We speak often. It is a young female, humanoid. 
PICARD: Her society is aware that there is interstellar life? 
DATA: No, sir. 
PICARD: Oops. Just where does she think you're calling from? 
DATA: I have kept that somewhat vague, sir, but Sarjenka, that is her
name, has been quite specific, telling me details of her family and
friends. And interspersed among these confidences have been some
alarming references. 
PICARD: Go on. 
DATA: Drema Four has been enduring the same geological stresses we have
found in the other systems. 
PICARD: Then your friend is in trouble. 
DATA: Yes, sir. 
PICARD: What are you proposing? 
DATA: If we can determine the cause of these geological disturbances,
we might be able to reverse the process. 
PICARD: Violate the Prime Directive? 
DATA: I was hoping that you might have another option, sir. 
PICARD: We don't even know if this catastrophe is preventable. Call a
conference in my quarters. All senior staff. 
DATA: Yes, sir. 
PICARD: And Data, all communication with this life form must cease. 
DATA: Yes, sir. I understand, sir.

[Ten forward]

(Riker is socialising with a young woman) 
RIKER: Seeing the look on his face. I'll get you another drink. (goes
to the bar) Two more. 
(Wesley enters and gestures that he wants a word) 
RIKER: Thank you. 
(Riker takes the drinks to his table and makes his excuses) 
RIKER: Family emergency. (goes to Wesley's table) You don't look like a
person who came here to relax. 
WESLEY: I didn't. I need your advice. Yesterday, when Ensign Davies
turned in his geological survey, I asked him to run an ico-spectrogram.
He didn't agree. 
RIKER: Do you think you were right? 
WESLEY: Yes. I guess. I could have just been picking nits. 
RIKER: Or you could have been intimidated. It's tough to tell other
people what to do. 
WESLEY: I suppose I could have made it an order, but how do you give
orders to somebody older and more experienced then you? 
RIKER: The difference in ages between you and Davies is not the issue
here. 
WESLEY: I guess not. 
RIKER: Do you think it might have something to do with ego? 
WESLEY: No, it's just the opposite of ego. Every time I try to give an
order, something inside me says, what makes my judgment so superior to
these people's? 
RIKER: Wes, responsibility and authority go hand in hand. I know you're
responsible, now we've got to teach you a little bit of authority. One
of the reasons you've been given command is so you can make a few right
decisions, that will establish a pattern of success and help build
self-confidence. If you don't trust your own judgment, you don't belong
in the command chair. 
WESLEY: But what if I'm wrong? 
RIKER: Then you're wrong. It's arrogant to think you'll never make a
mistake. 
WESLEY: But what if it's something really important. I mean, not just a
mineral survey. What if someone dies because I made a mistake? 
RIKER: In your position, it's important to ask yourself one question.
What would Picard do? 
WESLEY: He'd listen to everyone's opinion, then make his own decision.
But he's Captain Picard. 
RIKER: Well it doesn't matter. Once Picard makes his decision, does
anyone question it? 
WESLEY: No way. 
RIKER: And why not? 
WESLEY: I'm not sure. 
DATA [OC]: Commander Riker, report to the Captain's quarters. 
RIKER: When you figure it out, you'll understand command. I'm on my
way. I hope I've been able to help. You let me know what you decide? 
WESLEY: I've made my decision. I'm going to have Davies run that
ico-gram. Thank you, sir. 
RIKER: You're welcome. (in his date's ear) I'll see you later) 
WOMAN: Okay. 
[Geophysics lab]

(Wesley marches in, no nonsense) 
WESLEY: Ensign Davies? I want that ico-spectrogram run on the Selcundi
Drema system. 
DAVIES: You got it.

[Picard's quarters]

PICARD: It is no longer a matter of how wrong Data
was, or why he did it. The dilemma exists. We have to discuss the
options. And please talk freely. 
WORF: There are no options. The Prime Directive is not a matter of
degrees. It is an absolute. 
PULASKI: I have a problem with that kind of rigidity. It seems callous
and even a little cowardly. 
PICARD: Doctor, I'm sure that is not what the Lieutenant meant, but in
a situation like this, we have to be cautious. What we do today may
profoundly affect upon the future. If we could see every possible
outcome 
RIKER: We'd be gods, which we're not. If there is a cosmic plan, is it
not the height of hubris to think that we can, or should, interfere? 
LAFORGE: So what are you saying? That the Dremans are fated to die? 
RIKER: I think that's an option we should be considering. 
LAFORGE: Consider it considered, and rejected. 
TROI: If there is a cosmic plan, are we not a part of it? Our presence
at this place at this moment in time could be a part of that fate. 
LAFORGE: Right, and it could be part of that plan that we interfere. 
RIKER: Well that eliminates the possibility of fate. 
DATA: But Commander, the Dremans are not a subject for philosophical
debate. They are a people. 
PICARD: So we make an exception in the deaths of millions. 
PULASKI: Yes. 
PICARD: And is it the same situation if it's an epidemic, and not a
geological calamity? 
PULASKI: Absolutely. 
PICARD: How about a war? If generations of conflict is killing
millions, do we interfere? Ah, well, now we're all a little less secure
in our moral certitude. And what if it's not just killings. If an
oppressive government is enslaving millions? You see, the Prime
Directive has many different functions, not the least of which is to
protect us. To prevent us from allowing our emotions to overwhelm our
judgement. 
PULASKI: My emotions are involved. Data's friend is going to die. That
means something. 
WORF: To Data. 
PULASKI: Does that invalidate the emotion? 
LAFORGE: What if the Dremans asked for our help? 
DATA: Yes. Sarjenka's transmission could be viewed as a call for help. 
PICARD: Sophistry. 
PULASKI: I'll buy that excuse. We're all jigging madly on the head of a
pin anyway. 
WORF: She cannot ask for help from someone she does not know. 
DATA: She knows me. 
RIKER: What a perfectly vicious little circle. 
DATA: We are going to allow her to die, are we not? 
PICARD: Data, I want you to sever the contact with Drema Four. 
(Data goes to a wall panel and taps in commands) 
COMPUTER: Isolating frequency. 
SARJENKA [OC]: Data. Data, where are you? Why won't you answer? Are you
angry me? Please, please, I'm so afraid. Data, Data, where are you? 
PICARD: Wait. Oh, Data. Your whisper from the dark has now become a
plea. We cannot turn our backs.

Captain's log, stardate 42741.3. We are entering
into orbit of Drema Four, the planet from which Data received the
distress signal. Sensors indicate that the volcanic activity is
increasing. 
