RIKER WOMAN HILDEBRANDT PICARD WESLEY COMPUTER DAVIES DATA

[Geophysics lab]

HILDEBRANDT: (the woman on the team) It seems to be
at this point we can expect the greatest tectonic stresses. 
WESLEY: I agree. Nice job. 
DAVIES: Here are the results of my scan on the third Selcundi system.
It's just the same old song. 
WESLEY: Didn't you tell me that UV absorptions like these are
indicative of traker deposits? 
DAVIES: And where there's traker there's generally dilithium? Yes, I
did. 
WESLEY: So don't you think we ought to run an ico-spectrogram? 
DAVIES: Well, Wes, these traker readings are really faint. It's
probably just a fool's echo. 
WESLEY: I think I'd still run an ico-gram. 
HILDEBRANDT: Wesley, it's a major undertaking to set up the scanner. 
DAVIES: We're looking at five hours minimum. 
WESLEY: I know, I know. I don't want to do a half way job. 
DAVIES: Wes, there's being thorough and then there's wasting time. It's
also the mark of a good officer to recognise the difference. 
WESLEY: Maybe you're right.

[Bridge]

DATA: Computer, please access all volcanic and
tectonic plate activity in Drema Four. 
COMPUTER: Accessing. 
DATA: Computer, locate Captain Picard. 
COMPUTER: Captain Picard is on holodeck three.

[Meadow]

(Picard has finally got out for a canter on his
Arab steed) 
PICARD: Data? 
DATA: An excellent steed, sir. Sorry to disturb you, Captain. 
PICARD: It's quite all right. It must be important, or you wouldn't be
here. 
DATA: Yes, sir, it is important. Very. Eight weeks ago I received a
transmission, a simple four word message, 'Is anybody out there?' I
answered it. 
PICARD: There is a loneliness inherent in that whisper from the
darkness. 
DATA: Yes, sir. I am glad that you understand, sir. 
PICARD: But it didn't end there. 
DATA: No, sir. We speak often. It is a young female, humanoid. 
PICARD: Her society is aware that there is interstellar life? 
DATA: No, sir. 
PICARD: Oops. Just where does she think you're calling from? 
DATA: I have kept that somewhat vague, sir, but Sarjenka, that is her
name, has been quite specific, telling me details of her family and
friends. And interspersed among these confidences have been some
alarming references. 
PICARD: Go on. 
DATA: Drema Four has been enduring the same geological stresses we have
found in the other systems. 
PICARD: Then your friend is in trouble. 
DATA: Yes, sir. 
PICARD: What are you proposing? 
DATA: If we can determine the cause of these geological disturbances,
we might be able to reverse the process. 
PICARD: Violate the Prime Directive? 
DATA: I was hoping that you might have another option, sir. 
PICARD: We don't even know if this catastrophe is preventable. Call a
conference in my quarters. All senior staff. 
DATA: Yes, sir. 
PICARD: And Data, all communication with this life form must cease. 
DATA: Yes, sir. I understand, sir.

[Ten forward]

(Riker is socialising with a young woman) 
RIKER: Seeing the look on his face. I'll get you another drink. (goes
to the bar) Two more. 
(Wesley enters and gestures that he wants a word) 
RIKER: Thank you. 
(Riker takes the drinks to his table and makes his excuses) 
RIKER: Family emergency. (goes to Wesley's table) You don't look like a
person who came here to relax. 
WESLEY: I didn't. I need your advice. Yesterday, when Ensign Davies
turned in his geological survey, I asked him to run an ico-spectrogram.
He didn't agree. 
RIKER: Do you think you were right? 
WESLEY: Yes. I guess. I could have just been picking nits. 
RIKER: Or you could have been intimidated. It's tough to tell other
people what to do. 
WESLEY: I suppose I could have made it an order, but how do you give
orders to somebody older and more experienced then you? 
RIKER: The difference in ages between you and Davies is not the issue
here. 
WESLEY: I guess not. 
RIKER: Do you think it might have something to do with ego? 
WESLEY: No, it's just the opposite of ego. Every time I try to give an
order, something inside me says, what makes my judgment so superior to
these people's? 
RIKER: Wes, responsibility and authority go hand in hand. I know you're
responsible, now we've got to teach you a little bit of authority. One
of the reasons you've been given command is so you can make a few right
decisions, that will establish a pattern of success and help build
self-confidence. If you don't trust your own judgment, you don't belong
in the command chair. 
WESLEY: But what if I'm wrong? 
RIKER: Then you're wrong. It's arrogant to think you'll never make a
mistake. 
WESLEY: But what if it's something really important. I mean, not just a
mineral survey. What if someone dies because I made a mistake? 
RIKER: In your position, it's important to ask yourself one question.
What would Picard do? 
WESLEY: He'd listen to everyone's opinion, then make his own decision.
But he's Captain Picard. 
RIKER: Well it doesn't matter. Once Picard makes his decision, does
anyone question it? 
WESLEY: No way. 
RIKER: And why not? 
WESLEY: I'm not sure. 
DATA [OC]: Commander Riker, report to the Captain's quarters. 
RIKER: When you figure it out, you'll understand command. I'm on my
way. I hope I've been able to help. You let me know what you decide? 
WESLEY: I've made my decision. I'm going to have Davies run that
ico-gram. Thank you, sir. 
RIKER: You're welcome. (in his date's ear) I'll see you later) 
WOMAN: Okay. 
