RIKER WORF PICARD TROI WESLEY DAVIES DATA

[Observation lounge]

(Wesley enters) 
RIKER: Wesley, I've assigned you the command of the planetary mineral
surveys. 
WESLEY: Sir? Thank you, sir. 
RIKER: You may not thank me once you see how much work it entails.
Assemble a team, and take a look at the records on the Drema quadrant.
There's a mystery here. We've got to solve it. 
WESLEY: Yes, sir. A team, sir? 
PICARD: Ensign, this is a serious responsibility. 
WESLEY: I know, sir. 
PICARD: These officers are here to assist you. Not judge, help you. You
should make use of them. They are a valuable resource. And by the way,
I respect an officer who is prepared to admit ignorance and ask a
question, rather than one who out of pride will blunder blindly
forward. 
WESLEY: I understand, sir. 
RIKER: Ensign. You're dismissed. 
WESLEY: I'll try not to disappoint you.

[Bridge]

(Data is working at a rear station. There are
components and tools scattered on the floor) 
WORF: Is this part of your regular duties? 
DATA: No, it is a personal project. I have reset the sensors to scan
for frequencies outside their usual range. 
WORF: Such as? 
DATA: The dips and peaks of the galaxy's magnetic field, organic
molecules in nebular clouds, energetic cosmic rays. 
WORF: Interesting. Would these scans also detect artificial
transmissions as well as naturally occurring signals? 
DATA: Of course. 
WORF: Good. 
DATA: Those signals are very faint and difficult to distinguish from
background noise. That is why I am boosting the power. 
(Worf knocks over a circuit board with his foot) 
DATA: I will be removing that equipment to my quarters. 
WORF: Good.

[Corridor]

WESLEY: Hi. Can I walk with you? 
TROI: Yes. 
WESLEY: I need a little advice. 
RIKER: Well, it's free. 
WESLEY: Walking or advice? 
RIKER: Both. 
WESLEY: It's about my team. I'm considering so many factors I'm
confusing myself. 
TROI: What have you done so far? 
WESLEY: Well, I've broken down the task and picked the best people in
those disciplines. 
RIKER: So who have you got so far? 
WESLEY: I've got Prixus in mineralogy and metallurgy, Alans and
Hildebrandt for volcanology and geomechanics. I want Davies for
geochemistry, but 
TROI: But they're all much older than you are. 
WESLEY: Right, and it makes me feel strange. What do I do about
personality conflicts? 
RIKER: Completely irrelevant. These people are professionals. If
there's a personality conflict, you're in charge, you settle it. 
WESLEY: So you not only have to understand the job, you also have to be
a ship's Counsellor. 
TROI: Sometimes. 
WESLEY: Well, thank you.

Captain's log, Stardate 42696.3. We are entering
the second Selcundi star system, where acting Ensign Crusher will begin
his planetary mineral survey. The results of which may help unlock the
geological puzzle. 
[Geophysics lab]

(A young scientist is reducing a rock to ash for
analysis)
WESLEY: Ensign Davies? 
DAVIES: You got him. 
WESLEY: Wesley Crusher. I've been put in charge of the planetary
geological surveys, and I'd like to have you on the team. 
DAVIES: Sounds great. Who else is on it? 
WESLEY: I have Prixus and Alans and Hildebrandt. 
DAVIES: It's a shame you didn't talk to me first. It's just personal
opinion, but I like to break up married teams. 
WESLEY: I hadn't thought of that. 
DAVIES: Don't worry, they'll probably work out fine. And if you need
any help, just give me a signal and I'll take over for you. We don't
want you to get too beat up on your first command. 
WESLEY: Thanks, but I'm pretty sure I'll be all right.

