PICARD TROI COMPUTER RIKER [OC]
anthropomorphise animals thank far watch doesn setting path wind

[Corridor]

PICARD: You're sure you won't reconsider? 
TROI: No, I'll just watch you and be impressed. 
PICARD: An optimistic vote of confidence from a non-rider. 
TROI: You know, I never particularly thought of you as an animal
person. 
PICARD: Small animals, no, but horses. Computer, programme the holodeck
for a woodland setting, with a bridle path and an appropriate mount. 
COMPUTER: Type of mount? Andorian Zabathu, Klingon Sark 
PICARD: Horse. Earth horse. 
COMPUTER: Breed? 
PICARD: Arabian. The Arabs believed that Allah gathered the south wind
and made the horse. 
TROI: On the holodeck we've made that legend come true. 
PICARD: I like that. Oh yes, computer, English tack, and I will control
the animal myself. 
COMPUTER: Enter when ready.

[Meadow]

(The grey mare is waiting to be saddled) 
TROI: So you like horses for the romance? 
PICARD: It goes deeper than that. A fine war mare would sleep in a
bedouin's tent, carry him into battle, feed his children with her milk.
There's a bond which is created by mutual need. Hello, beautiful. 
TROI: Now I understand. You don't want the comfort of a pet, you want a
companion. 
(Picard hands her his riding crop while he tacks up) 
PICARD: Thank you. I don't want to anthropomorphise anything. I seems
that some creatures have the capacity to fill spaces you never knew
were empty. 
TROI: I had a Betazoid kitten once. My mother and the cat reacted badly
to one another. 
PICARD: Sure you don't want to try? It's very relaxing. We can find you
something that will be quiet and gentle. 
TROI: No, I prefer a mode of transportation that doesn't have a mind of
its own. 
PICARD: Strange. I would expect Betazoids to be outstanding animal
trainers. 
TROI: We become too involved in the thoughts and shifting passions of
the beast. We lose our way and get swept up in emotion. 
PICARD: I should think the shifting passions of this beast would be far
more terrifying. 
(He's referring to himself. Just as he puts his foot in the stirrup to
mount - ) 
RIKER [OC]: Captain. 
PICARD: Yes, Number One? 
