RIKER OBRIEN LAFORGE WORF PICARD Q WESLEY GUINAN SONYA DATA

[Bridge]

(The tractor beam is green) 
PICARD: Report, Lieutenant. 
WORF: The beam is draining our shields.
RIKER: If they pull down our shields, we're helpless.
PICARD: Warp eight, any heading. Engage.
WESLEY: Captain, the beam is holding us here.
RIKER: Increase power!
WORF: Shields weakening.
DATA: Shields will be down in eighteen seconds.
PICARD: Locate the exact source of the tractor beam. Lock on phasers.
WORF: Phasers locked on target.
PICARD: Fire.
WORF: They still have us.
DATA: Shields are down, sir.
(A circular cut is made in the hull, and a section of several decks is
pulled out) 
WORF: A type of laser beam is slicing into the saucer section.
RIKER: Carving us up like a roast.
PICARD: With whatever force necessary, terminate that beam. Fire when
ready. 
(They blast a big hole through an edge of the cube) 
PICARD: Again, Mister Worf. 
(Two more holes are blown in the scaffolding) 
DATA: Tractor beam is released, sir. Force field is maintaining our
hull integrity. 
RIKER: Damage report? 
WORF: Coming in, sir. Sections twenty seven, twenty eight, twenty nine
on decks four, five and six destroyed.
PICARD: Casualties? 
WORF: Eighteen were in those sections and are missing.
PICARD: What is the condition of the alien ship?
WORF: They have sustained damage to twenty percent of their vessel.
Life support minimal.
PICARD: Conference.

[Engineering]

SONYA: I can't get the shields up.
LAFORGE: Divert power from anywhere you need it. Anywhere except for
life support.
SONYA: No, it wouldn't help. The circuits which control the shields,
they've been fused.
LAFORGE: If you can't reprogram, then reroute.
SONYA: Eighteen people. Dead, just like that.
LAFORGE: I know. Just put it out of your head.
SONYA: No, I can't. I keep seeing them.
LAFORGE: Sonya, stop it. We'll have time to grieve later. Right now,
let's just get those shields operative. 
SONYA: Right, right, of course.

[Observation lounge]

PICARD: Guinan, how much more can you tell us about
these creatures? 
GUINAN: Bits and pieces. 
PICARD: Anything would help. 
GUINAN: They're made up of organic and artificial life which has been
developing for thousands of centuries. 
Q: The Borg is the ultimate user. They're unlike any threat your
Federation has ever faced. They're not interested in political
conquest, wealth or power as you know it. They're simply interested in
your ship, its technology. They've identified it as something they can
consume.
RIKER: You brought us here, you exposed us to them, and you cost us the
lives of our shipmates 
Q: Oh, please. 
PICARD: Number One. Eighteen of our people have died. Please, tell us
this is one of your illusions.
Q: Oh, no. This is as real as your so called life gets.
(And he vanishes) 
LAFORGE [OC]: This is Lieutenant La Forge, Captain. We've been able to
restore power to the shields.
PICARD: Very good.
WORF [OC]: Captain, I have the casualty list coming on screen.
PICARD: Cancel. We'll deal with that later.
RIKER: Sir, if we're going to have further dealings with the Borg now
or in the future, I think that we should find out all we can about them.
PICARD: Visit their ship?
RIKER: In my opinion, that's the only choice.
PICARD: Assemble a minimal away team.
GUINAN: What?
RIKER: Mister Worf, transporter room three. Data.
GUINAN: I wouldn't go there if I were you.
RIKER: Oh, I don't know, Guinan. They paid us a visit. It seems only
fair that we return the courtesy.

Captain's log, supplemental. We have been attacked
without provocation by an alien race which Guinan calls the Borg. It
appears that we have neutralised their vessel. Commander Riker is
leading an away team in an attempt to learn more about them.

[Transporter room]

WORF: There are no life sign readings.
O'BRIEN: I've laid in coordinates which should set you down in the
least damaged section of the Borg ship.
RIKER: Set phasers on stun. Be ready to increase power in case we need
it. Energise.


[Borg ship]

(They are on one of the many walkways. Lots of wall
panels, ducts and cabling overhead, Borg hooked up to alcoves
everywhere) 
RIKER: I wonder why they don't react to us, or why the Enterprise
didn't read any life signs, especially with this many of them.
DATA: Perhaps because this ship was scanned for individual life signs.
Apparently when they are in these slots, they become part of the whole
and no longer read as separate life forms.
RIKER: Captain.

[Bridge]

PICARD: Go ahead, Number One.
RIKER [OC]: Our readings were incorrect. The Borg crew survived 
[Borg ship]

RIKER: They appear to be in some kind of stasis.
PICARD [OC]: Explain.
RIKER: There are slots along the wall, kind of like compartments. There
are two Borg in each.
DATA: Captain, I would theorise that the Borg are somehow
interconnected through these slots and are working collectively.
RIKER: We're going try to access their main computer.
(Data steps into a slot - or alcove) 
DATA: Commander, I believe each slot is designed for a specific Borg.
Here is where the connection is made.
RIKER: Like a juggernaut, it could begin moving at any moment.
DATA: The technology required to achieve this biological and artificial
interface is far beyond our capabilities. There are many advantages.
RIKER: Speed being the most obvious. This ship literally just thinks
what it wants, and then it happens.
(A Borg walks past them, taking no notice) 
DATA: Fascinating. 
RIKER: They either don't see us, or don't see us as a threat. 
[Bridge]

PICARD: Transporter Chief.

