RIKER WORF PICARD Q WESLEY GUINAN COMPUTER DATA

[Bridge]

WORF: Commander. My status board indicates that the
shuttle is back in bay two.
RIKER: Computer, locate Captain Picard.
COMPUTER: Captain Picard is in Ten Forward.

[Ten forward]

GUINAN: I knew it was you.
Q: You! Picard, if you had half the sense you pretend to have, you
would get her off your ship immediately. And if you like, I'd be more
than pleased to expedite her departure.
PICARD: You know him? 
GUINAN: We have had some dealings.
Q: Those dealings were two centuries ago. This creature is not what she
appears to be. She's an imp, and where she goes, trouble always follows.
PICARD: You're speaking of yourself, Q, not Guinan.
Q: Guinan? Is that your name now?
PICARD: Guinan is not the issue here. You are. We had an agreement that
you would stop meddling with us.
Q: And so I have.
PICARD: What do you want, Q? You state your business. Get on with it.
Q: I agree, Captain. Enough about this creature. She's diverting us
from the purpose of my being here.
(Riker enters with Worf) 
RIKER: Which is?
Q: Ah, the redoubtable Commander Riker. And Micro-brain. Growl for me.
Let me know you still care. 
PICARD: Worf. 
Q: My purpose is to join you.
RIKER: To join us as what?
Q: As a member of the crew. Willing and able. Ready to serve. This ship
is already home for the indigent, the unwanted, the unworthy. Why not
for a homeless entity.
RIKER: Homeless?
Q: Yes.
RIKER: The other members of the Q continuum kicked you out.
GUINAN: Not all the Q are alike. Some are almost respectable.
PICARD: Ready and willing. Able to serve. What would you do? Would you
start as an ordinary crewman? What task is too menial for an entity?
Q: Sir, do you mock me?
PICARD: Not at all. That's the last thing I would do. You, by
definition, are part of our charter. Our mission is to go forth to seek
out new and different life forms, and you certainly qualify as one of
the most unique I've ever encountered. To learn about you is, frankly,
provocative. But you're next of kin to chaos.
Q: Captain, at least allow me to present my argument. 
PICARD: Worf. 
(Worf goes to stand guard outside) 
Q: After our last encounter, I was asked to leave the Q Continuum.
Since then, I've been wandering vaguely, bored really, my existence
without purpose. Then I remembered all the good times I had with you. 
RIKER: The good times? The first time we met you, you put us on trial
for the crimes of humanity. 
Q: Of which you were exonerated.
RIKER: The next time we saw you, you asked me to join the Q Continuum.
Q: A big mistake that you did not accept my offer. More and more I
realise that here, here is where I want to be. Think of the advantages.
Now, I neither expect nor require any special treatment. And if
necessary, although I can't imagine why, I will renounce my powers and
become as weak and incompetent as all of you.
PICARD: No.
Q: No? Oh, Captain, in fairness, let me try, I deserve at least that
much.
RIKER: In fairness? You disrupt this ship, you kidnap the Captain. 
Q: I add a little excitement, a little spice to your lives, and all you
do is complain. Where's your adventurous spirit, your imagination.
Think, Picard, think. Think of the possibilities.
PICARD: Simply speaking, we don't trust you.
Q: Oh. Well, you may not trust me, but you do need me. You're not
prepared for what awaits you.
PICARD: How can we be prepared for that which we do not know? But I do
know that we are ready to encounter it.
Q: Really?
PICARD: yes. Absolutely. That's why we're out here.
Q: Oh, the arrogance. They don't have a clue as to what's out here.
GUINAN: But they will learn, adapt. That is their greatest advantage.
Q: They're moving faster than expected, further than they should.
PICARD: By whose calculations? 
Q: You judge yourselves against the pitiful adversaries you have
encountered so far. The Romulans, the Klingons. They are nothing
compared to what's waiting. Picard, you are about to move into areas of
the galaxy containing wonders more incredible than you can possibly
imagine, and terrors to freeze your soul. I offer myself as guide only
to be rejected out of hand. 
RIKER: We'll just have to do the best we can without you.
Q: What justifies that smugness?
PICARD: Not smugness, not arrogance. But we are resolute, we are
determined, and your help is not required.
Q: We'll just have to see how ready you are.
GUINAN: Q! 
(The Enterprise is thrown through space at even more incredible speed
than usual) 
PICARD: Bridge, this is the Captain. All stop.
WESLEY [OC]: Answering all stop, sir.
PICARD: Status?

[Bridge]

DATA: According to these coordinates, we have
travelled seven thousand light years 
[Ten Forward]

DATA [OC]: And are located near the system J two
five.
RIKER: Travel time to the nearest starbase?
DATA [OC]: At maximum warp, in two years, seven months, three days,
eighteen hours we would reach Starbase one eight five.
RIKER: Why?
Q: Why? Why, to give you a taste of your future, a preview of things to
come. Con permiso, Capitan. The hall
is rented, the orchestra engaged. It's now time to see if you can dance.
(Q vanishes) 
PICARD: Guinan, your people have been in this part of the galaxy. 
GUINAN: Yes.
RIKER: What can you tell us?
GUINAN: Only that if I were you, I'd start back now.

Captain's log, stardate 42761.9. Despite Guinan's
warning, I feel compelled to investigate this unexplored sector of the
galaxy before heading back. 
[Bridge]

WORF: Captain, the sixth planet in the system is
Class M.
DATA: There is a system of roads on this planet, which indicates a
highly industrialised civilisation. But where there should be cities
there are only great rips in the surface.
WORF: It is as though some great force just scooped all the machine
elements off the face of the planet.
DATA: It is identical to what happened to the outposts along the
Neutral Zone.
WORF: Captain, we are being probed.
RIKER: What is the source of the probe?
WORF: A ship. It is on an intercept course.
PICARD: On screen. Magnify.
(A cube is sailing through space) 
RIKER: Full scan. 
PICARD: Go to Yellow Alert.
WORF: Going to Yellow Alert.
RIKER: Keep the shields down. We don't want to appear provocative. 
WORF: Aye, sir. 
PICARD: Mister Data, what can you tell us?
DATA: The ship is strangely generalised in design. There is no specific
bridge, no command centre. There is no engineering section. I can
identify no living quarters.
RIKER: Life signs?
DATA: There is no indication of life.
RIKER: Lieutenant Worf, what is its alert status?
WORF: I detect no shields, no weapons of any known design.
PICARD: Hailing frequencies.
WORF: Open.
PICARD: This is Captain Jean-Luc Picard of the USS Enterprise.
WORF: No response.
PICARD: This is Captain Picard representing the United Federation of
Planets. Guinan.

