RIKER LAFORGE WORF PICARD Q WESLEY DATA

[Bridge]

RIKER [OC]: To link artificial intelligence
directly into the humanoid brain. 
[Borg ship]

RIKER: Astounding. 
DATA: Commander?
RIKER: What is it?
DATA: The ship appears to be regenerating. Perhaps this explains why
they have not taken notice of our presence. Their collective effort is
being directed into repairing this vessel.
RIKER: Captain, 
[Bridge]

RIKER [OC]: The Borg seem to be using their
combined power to repair the ship.
PICARD: Transporter Chief, beam the away team directly to the Bridge. 
(O'Brien does so) 
PICARD: Let's get the hell out of here. Warp eight. Now, Mister
Crusher. Engage.
DATA: Captain, the Borg are in pursuit.
PICARD: On screen. Magnify.
RIKER: Increase to ten to the third power. 
(They see bent metal straightening) 
RIKER: It's continuing to regenerate.
PICARD: Let's see if we can outrun them. Lieutenant La Forge, I want
maximum warp 
[Engineering]

PICARD [OC]: For as long as we can hold it. 
LAFORGE: Yes, sir. We are passing warp eight point five.

[Bridge]

LAFORGE [OC]: Eight point eight. Warp nine.
RIKER: Arm the photon torpedoes. See if we can slow them down.
WORF: Torpedoes armed.
PICARD: Fire.
(Two nice big fireballs on the cube) 
WORF: They had no effect.
LAFORGE [OC]: Bridge, this is Engineering. We are now at warp nine
point six five. 
WORF: The Borg are still gaining.
Q: They will follow this ship until you exhaust your fuel. They will
wear down your defences. Then you will be theirs. Admit it, Picard.
You're out of your league. You should have stayed where you belonged.

Captain's log supplemental. We are unable to
maintain the gap between the Enterprise and the Borg ship.

[Bridge]

LAFORGE [OC]: Engineering to Bridge. 
PICARD: Go ahead.
LAFORGE [OC]: You've got all we can give you. 
PICARD: I understand, Mister La Forge.
WORF: Captain, the enemy vessel is firing on us. There are no reports
of any damage to the Enterprise.
DATA: Captain, the target was not the ship. The weapon was designed to
drain the shields.
WORF: Confirmed. Shield effectiveness has been reduced twelve percent.
WESLEY: Captain, the Borg ship is closing.
WORF: They're firing again. Shields have been reduced forty one
percent. Another hit and we will be defenceless.
RIKER: Arm the photon torpedoes.
WORF: Torpedoes armed.
PICARD: Fire the photons.
WORF: The Borg ship was not damaged.
Q: You can't outrun them. You can't destroy them. If you damage them,
the essence of what they are remains. They regenerate and keep coming.
Eventually you will weaken, your reserves will be gone. They are
relentless.
WORF: The Borg ship is firing. We have lost shields again.

[Engineering]

LAFORGE: Captain, we've just lost the warp engines.

[Bridge]

Q: Where's your stubbornness now, Picard, your
arrogance? Do you still profess to be prepared for what awaits you? 
WORF: The Borg ship is re-establishing its tractor beam.
RIKER: Lock on photon torpedoes.
WORF: Yes, sir.
DATA: Without our shields, at this range there is a high degree of
probability that a photon detonation could destroy the Enterprise.
RIKER: Prepare to fire.
(Q swaps places with Data) 
Q: I'll be leaving now. You thought you could handle it, so handle it.
PICARD: Q. End this.
Q: Moi? What makes you think I am either inclined or capable to
terminate this encounter?
PICARD: If we all die, here, now, you will not be able to gloat. You
wanted to frighten us. We're frightened. You wanted to show us that we
were inadequate. For the moment, I grant that. You wanted me to say I
need you. I need you! 
(With a snap of Q's fingers, the Enterprise goes whirling through space
again) 
RIKER: Position.
WESLEY: Zero seven zero, mark six three, sir. Back where we started.
(Q swaps places with Riker) 
Q: That was a difficult admission. Another man would have been
humiliated to say those words. Another man would have rather died than
ask for help. 
PICARD: I understand what you've done here, Q, but I think the lesson
could have been learned without the loss of eighteen members of my crew.
Q: If you can't take a little bloody nose, maybe you ought to go back
home and crawl under your bed. It's not safe out here. It's wondrous,
with treasures to satiate desires both subtle and gross, but it's not
for the timid.
(Q vanishes and everyone is back in his own seat) 
PICARD: Mister Crusher, set course for the nearest starbase.
WESLEY: Course laid in for Starbase Eighty Three, sir. 
PICARD: Engage.

