TROI OBRIEN LAFORGE WORF PICARD RIKER Q WESLEY GUINAN SONYA BORG DATA

[Bridge]

RIKER: Shields up.
WORF: Aye, sir.

[Engineering]

RIKER [OC]: All decks, stand by. 
(A humanoid with a mechanical arm beams in) 
LAFORGE: Security, report to main Engineering. We have an intruder.
(The intruder is studying wall panels and consoles while the tiny
Enterprise hangs nose to whatever with the huge cube) 
PICARD: Lieutenant? Status. 
LAFORGE: It seemed to make a visual survey of the engine core, sir,
then it moved in here. 
Q: Interesting, isn't it? Not a he, not a she. Not like anything you've
ever seen. An enhanced humanoid.
PICARD: What is it you want? We mean you no harm. Do you understand me?
Q: Understand you? You're nothing to him. He's not interested in your
life form. He's just a scout, the first of many. He's here to analyse
your technology. He may attempt to gain control of the ship. I wouldn't
let him.
(The mechanical arm is used to pass a green light to the console) 
PICARD: Stop! I cannot allow you to interfere with the operation of
this ship. Mister Worf.
WORF: Ensign. 
(The security man is casually thrown across Engineering. Worf's phaser
has no effect. Now the Borg steps up his electronic infiltration of the
engineering systems, and the lights go out) 
PICARD: Mister Worf, use whatever means to neutralise the intruder. 
(A phaser on full kill knocks it down, and another Borg beams it to
carry on where it left off. This time, Worf's phaser is blocked by a
force field. The second Borg then goes to the dead one, removes a few
attachments and beams out. The dead Borg dissolves to a dirty mark on
the carpet)

[Observation lounge]

PICARD: Because her people had contact with the
Borg, I have requested Guinan to participate in this conference. You
are aware of what occurred just now in main Engineering.
GUINAN: Yes. 
PICARD: What happened between your people and the Borg? 
GUINAN: I wasn't there personally, but from what I'm told, they swarmed
through our system. And when they left, there was little or nothing
left of my people.
RIKER: Guinan, if they were that aggressive, why didn't the Borg
attack? They could have but they didn't.
GUINAN: They don't do that individually. It's not their way. When they
decide to come, they're going to come in force. They don't do anything
piecemeal.
DATA: Then the initial encounter was solely for the purpose of
gathering information.
GUINAN: Yes.
PICARD: How do we reason with them? Let them know that we are not a
threat?
GUINAN: You don't. At least, I've never known anyone who did.
WORF [OC]: Captain, we are being hailed.
PICARD: On screen.
(An interior view of the cube, all girders and scaffolding) 
PICARD: This is Captain Jean-Luc Picard of the 
BORG: (many voices speaking as one) We have analysed your defensive
capabilities as being unable to withstand us. If you defend yourselves,
you will be punished. 
PICARD: Counsellor? 
TROI: We're not dealing with an individual mind. They don't have a
single leader. It's the collective minds of all of them.
PICARD: That would have definite advantages.
TROI: Yes, A single leader can make mistakes. It's far less likely in
the combined whole.
Q [on viewscreen]: Picard. Picard, are you sure you don't want me as a
member of your crew? 
WORF [OC]: Captain, the Borg have locked on to us with some form of
tractor beam. 
PICARD: We're on our way.

[Bridge]

(The tractor beam is green) 
PICARD: Report, Lieutenant. 
WORF: The beam is draining our shields.
RIKER: If they pull down our shields, we're helpless.
PICARD: Warp eight, any heading. Engage.
WESLEY: Captain, the beam is holding us here.
RIKER: Increase power!
WORF: Shields weakening.
DATA: Shields will be down in eighteen seconds.
PICARD: Locate the exact source of the tractor beam. Lock on phasers.
WORF: Phasers locked on target.
PICARD: Fire.
WORF: They still have us.
DATA: Shields are down, sir.
(A circular cut is made in the hull, and a section of several decks is
pulled out) 
WORF: A type of laser beam is slicing into the saucer section.
RIKER: Carving us up like a roast.
PICARD: With whatever force necessary, terminate that beam. Fire when
ready. 
(They blast a big hole through an edge of the cube) 
PICARD: Again, Mister Worf. 
(Two more holes are blown in the scaffolding) 
DATA: Tractor beam is released, sir. Force field is maintaining our
hull integrity. 
RIKER: Damage report? 
WORF: Coming in, sir. Sections twenty seven, twenty eight, twenty nine
on decks four, five and six destroyed.
PICARD: Casualties? 
WORF: Eighteen were in those sections and are missing.
PICARD: What is the condition of the alien ship?
WORF: They have sustained damage to twenty percent of their vessel.
Life support minimal.
PICARD: Conference.

[Engineering]

SONYA: I can't get the shields up.
LAFORGE: Divert power from anywhere you need it. Anywhere except for
life support.
SONYA: No, it wouldn't help. The circuits which control the shields,
they've been fused.
LAFORGE: If you can't reprogram, then reroute.
SONYA: Eighteen people. Dead, just like that.
LAFORGE: I know. Just put it out of your head.
SONYA: No, I can't. I keep seeing them.
LAFORGE: Sonya, stop it. We'll have time to grieve later. Right now,
let's just get those shields operative. 
SONYA: Right, right, of course.

[Observation lounge]

PICARD: Guinan, how much more can you tell us about
these creatures? 
GUINAN: Bits and pieces. 
PICARD: Anything would help. 
GUINAN: They're made up of organic and artificial life which has been
developing for thousands of centuries. 
Q: The Borg is the ultimate user. They're unlike any threat your
Federation has ever faced. They're not interested in political
conquest, wealth or power as you know it. They're simply interested in
your ship, its technology. They've identified it as something they can
consume.
RIKER: You brought us here, you exposed us to them, and you cost us the
lives of our shipmates 
Q: Oh, please. 
PICARD: Number One. Eighteen of our people have died. Please, tell us
this is one of your illusions.
Q: Oh, no. This is as real as your so called life gets.
(And he vanishes) 
LAFORGE [OC]: This is Lieutenant La Forge, Captain. We've been able to
restore power to the shields.
PICARD: Very good.
WORF [OC]: Captain, I have the casualty list coming on screen.
PICARD: Cancel. We'll deal with that later.
RIKER: Sir, if we're going to have further dealings with the Borg now
or in the future, I think that we should find out all we can about them.
PICARD: Visit their ship?
RIKER: In my opinion, that's the only choice.
PICARD: Assemble a minimal away team.
GUINAN: What?
RIKER: Mister Worf, transporter room three. Data.
GUINAN: I wouldn't go there if I were you.
RIKER: Oh, I don't know, Guinan. They paid us a visit. It seems only
fair that we return the courtesy.

Captain's log, supplemental. We have been attacked
without provocation by an alien race which Guinan calls the Borg. It
appears that we have neutralised their vessel. Commander Riker is
leading an away team in an attempt to learn more about them.

[Transporter room]

WORF: There are no life sign readings.
O'BRIEN: I've laid in coordinates which should set you down in the
least damaged section of the Borg ship.
RIKER: Set phasers on stun. Be ready to increase power in case we need
it. Energise.


[Borg ship]

(They are on one of the many walkways. Lots of wall
panels, ducts and cabling overhead, Borg hooked up to alcoves
everywhere) 
RIKER: I wonder why they don't react to us, or why the Enterprise
didn't read any life signs, especially with this many of them.
DATA: Perhaps because this ship was scanned for individual life signs.
Apparently when they are in these slots, they become part of the whole
and no longer read as separate life forms.
RIKER: Captain.

