RIKER WORF PICARD TROI PULASKI SURGEON DATA
instant stands polychromatics suggests complications allowing demand unit complete

[Observation lounge]

RIKER: We've got a man held hostage by alien forces
and all I have are no-option options. I need some input. 
PULASKI: Is Geordi all right? 
WORF: He's already been hit by multiple phaser stuns. 
PULASKI: He could need medical attention. 
WORF: Security team stands ready to take the initiative, sir. 
RIKER: Data? 
DATA: Our options have not changed. We can either respond to the Pakled
demand or not. We can either use force or not. 
RIKER: Allowing them access to our computer is a complete breech of
Starfleet security. 
WORF: Then force it must be.

[Starbase 515 Operating Theatre]

(Surgical scrubs are now red. Presumably to hide
the blood.) 
SURGEON: Don't worry about a thing, Captain. We've done this a hundred
times, and we're ready when you are. 
PICARD: Just get on with it, Doctor. I've got work to do. 
SURGEON: Activate Sterile Field. Neural callipers. 
(the electronic anaesthesia is applied) 
SURGEON: This will be a secondary cardiac procedure with mid-line entry
and excision of the early model unit. I anticipate no complications, as
the patient has had positive primary results and exhibits extraordinary
physical condition. We'll all be home in time for dinner. Tissue
mitigator.

[Observation lounge]

DATA: There's limited information available on
Pakled culture, but the eclectic range of their equipment suggests
their technology was borrowed from others. 
TROI: And now they have become militant. 
DATA: So it would seem. 
RIKER: Rationale? 
TROI: They are unwilling to wait for the timely evolution of their
species' intellectual capacity. They want instant knowledge, instant
power and gratification. 
PULASKI: The more they get, the more they want. 
RIKER: And the more aggressive and dangerous they become. I think it's
time we set some limits. 
DATA: To what effect, sir? We are faced with an impossible conundrum. 
RIKER: Suppose we turn their impatience and greed against them? 
PULASKI: But how? 
RIKER: Perhaps Geordi should give them something they want. Something
important. Then we simply create the right moment for him to take it
away, and get him the hell out of there. 
TROI: Would you be suggesting a ruse of some sort? 
RIKER: I would. 
PULASKI: But what if we fail? What'll happen to Geordi then? 
RIKER: We have no other choice. We have to try.

[Starbase 515 Operating Theatre]

SURGEON: There's been some capillary reaction here.
Let's proceed carefully. We'll need sharper focus on the thoracic
polychromatics and verification of myocardial enzyme balance.

