RIKER WORF PICARD TROI PULASKI DATA
thank form humans share externals commander carrying fifth ability

[Pulaski's office]

(Worf is carrying a tray) 
WORF: Doctor. I wished to thank you for protecting my 
PULASKI: Your secret is safe with me. Worf, I'm honoured. No one has
ever performed the Klingon tea ceremony for me. 
(She places some stones and a flower in the cups) 
PULASKI: There, that should do it. 
WORF: You know the ceremony? 
PULASKI: I understand the externals, not the mysteries. I'm not a
Klingon. 
WORF: You must not drink the tea. It is deadly to humans. 
PULASKI: And none too good for Klingons. 
WORF: It is a test of bravery, of one's ability to look at the face of
mortality. It is also a reminder that death is an experience best
shared, like the tea. 
PULASKI: Worf, you're a romantic. 
WORF: It is among the Klingons that love poetry achieves its fullest
flower. 
PULASKI: Hold that thought. 
(She dashes into Sickbay, returns with a hypo and injects herself) 
PULASKI: Antidote. If we're going to share, let's share. (they drink)
Now, quote me a little of that poetry.

[Bridge]

PICARD: Initiate sensor sweeps. 
DATA: Aye, sir. The system's sun has entered a period of severe flare
activity. 
RIKER: Now we know what triggered the SOS. 
DATA: Class M readings from the fifth planet in the system. 
PICARD: Take us in. 
WORF: Shields at maximum. 
DATA: Sensors indicate human life form readings thirty metres below the
planet's surface. 
WORF: Hailing on all frequencies. No response so far, but the flares
may be interfering with communications. 
DATA: There is no evidence of an advanced communication network. 
PICARD: They brought a lot of technology. Where is it? 
WORF: There is no artificial power source on the planet. 
DATA: The stellar flares are increasing in magnitude and frequency.
Computer projections indicate they will brush the planet in three point
six hours. 
WORF: Evacuation will be difficult. We can lower our shields for
transport only between the flares. 
TROI: Captain, these people have been isolated for three hundred years.
They could be very unsophisticated. The shock of suddenly being
transported onto a spaceship could frighten them, to say the least. 
PICARD: Your point is well taken, Counsellor. Number One, you're going
to have to go down there. 
RIKER: On my way.

Captain's log, stardate 42827.3. Commander Riker
has reached the caverns, where he is making preparations to begin the
evacuation.

