TROI LAFORGE PICARD RIKER PULASKI GRANGER
started nailed require thief refused breath maturity seen survival

[Pulaski's office]

LAFORGE: Hey. So what happened to you two down on
Mariposa? Is everything all right? 
RIKER: Is there any reason why it shouldn't be? 
LAFORGE: Yeah. Every time I asked where you were, some clone lied to
me. 
RIKER: Lied to you? 
LAFORGE: Commander, with this I can see better than your average
person. Now when someone lies there are certain physical
manifestations. Variations in blush response, pupil dilation, pulse,
breath rate. Doesn't always work with aliens, but humans? Got'em
nailed. 
PULASKI: The clones lied about our whereabouts? I don't remember
anything happening. I was working in their medical facility and got a
call to report to Granger's office. I ran into Will on the way 
LAFORGE: Now wait a minute. Granger said he hadn't seen either one of
you. Did you make it to his office? 
RIKER: I think, I don't remember. 
(Pulaski runs a medical tricorder over them all) 
LAFORGE: So what's the prognosis, Doc? 
PULASKI: Geordi, you'll be pleased to know that you're not missing any
epithelial cells. 
LAFORGE: Great. 
PULASKI: Will and I, however, are. 
RIKER: Meaning? 
PULASKI: Although you can clone from any cell in the body, the cells
lining the stomach are the best choice because they're relatively
undifferentiated. 
LAFORGE: Where are you going? 
RIKER: To their cloning lab.

[Laboratory]

(Riker, La Forge and Pulaski beam straight in, and
find adult-sized replicas of themselves in cloning tubes. With Kate's
consent, Riker phasers them out of existence) 
GRANGER: Stop! Murderers! 
RIKER: Like hell! You're a damn thief! 
PULASKI: Gentlemen, please. 
GRANGER: What else could we do? We asked for your help and you refused
us. We're desperate. Desperate! 
RIKER: And that gave you the right to assault us, to rob us. 
GRANGER: We have the right to survive!

[Ready room]

PICARD: Doctor, how desperate is the colony's
situation? 
PULASKI: They've got two or three generations, then the fading will be
terminal. They're among the walking dead now. They just haven't been
buried. 
RIKER: I want the cloning equipment inspected. Who knows how many
tissue samples were stolen. We certainly have a right to exercise
control over our own bodies. 
PULASKI: You'll get no argument from me. 
TROI: I know the Mariposan culture seems alien, even frightening, but
really, we do have much in common. They're human beings fighting for
survival. Would we do any less? 
PICARD: Are you saying we should give them the DNA samples they
require? 
PULASKI: That's just postponing the inevitable. If they get an infusion
of fresh DNA, in fifteen generations they'll just go back to the same
problems. Cloning isn't the answer. What they need is breeding stock. 
PICARD: The Bringloidi. 
TROI: Yes. They have the energy and drive, and the clones possess the
emotional maturity and the technological knowledge. 
PICARD: They started out together. It seems only fitting they should
end up together. 
PULASKI: It's a match made in heaven. 
RIKER: Unfortunately it will have to be a shotgun wedding.

