PICARD RIKER BRENNA WORF DANILO
sweet sophisticated leave field amenities laughing heed remaining bustle

[Corridor]

WORF: Keep the area clear. 
PICARD: Report. 
WORF: Fire has been contained. No damage. 
PICARD: Unseal the doors. 
DANILO: My God, Picard, the place is a bloody death trap! Lightning
bolts falling from the ceiling!

[Cargo hold]

DANILO: What the hell was that thing? 
WORF: Automated fire system. A force field contains the flame until the
remaining oxygen within the field has been consumed. 
DANILO: What if I had been under that thing? 
WORF: You would have been standing in the fire. 
DANILO: Well, leaving that aside for the moment, I mean, what would
have happened to me? 
WORF: You would have suffocated and died. 
DANILO: Sweet mercy. 
BRENNA: Oh, there you are. Your hospitality leaves a hell of a lot to
be desired! You don't offer us a bite or a sup, and when we build a
fire to cook a little something, the place goes mad! 
PICARD: My apologies. I was unaware that you had not been instructed in
the use of the food dispensers. 
BRENNA: And what are you staring at? Have you never seen a woman
before? 
RIKER: I thought I had. 
DANILO: Commander, may I present my daughter, Brenna Odell. 
RIKER: Pleased to meet you, ma'am. 
BRENNA: You may have all the time in the world, but I've dozens of
frightened and hungry children and women to look after. 
RIKER: And what about the men? 
BRENNA: Well, I'm sure they'll find their comfort as they always do, in
the bottom of a mug of home brew! 
DANILO: Pay no heed, Commander. She's a fine girl. She's not usually so
sharp tongued. 
BRENNA: Dado! 
(Danilo scuttles away across the room) 
RIKER: Sir? (Picard is laughing) That's the last thing I expected. 
PICARD: Sometimes, Number One, you just have to bow to the absurd. 
DANILO: Captain, Captain, sir. How did the ship sense the fire? 
PICARD: The ship's computer 
DANILO: Computer? 
PICARD: The ship's computers sense a localised increase 
BRENNA: Men! Always talking when there's work to be done. And shouldn't
you be flying this ship, or whatever it is you do? 
RIKER: Sir, I think I'll stay and give her some help. 
(Picard and Worf leave. Riker goes to where Brenna is using hay to
clean up what animals leave lying around naturally) 
RIKER: That isn't necessary. The ship will clean itself. 
BRENNA: Well, good for the bloody ship. (long pause as she appraises
him) Tell me, Commander Riker, where does a girl go to wash her feet on
this ship? 
RIKER: As the First Officer, I feel it's my responsibility to show you
all the amenities.

[Corridor]

WORF: She is very like a Klingon woman. 
DANILO: Ah, Captain, there's just one other thing. It slipped my mind
in all the hustle and bustle. 
PICARD: The point, Mister Odell. 
DANILO: Well, in all your travels, have you heard anything from the
other colony? 
PICARD: The other colony?

Captain's log, supplemental. A review of stellar
charts has revealed a Class M planet only half a light year from the
Bringloid system. I am proceeding on the premise that it was the
destination of the colony which possessed the more sophisticated
equipment.

