PULASKI PICARD DATA WORF

[Ready room]

PICARD: Come. 
(Data enters) 
DATA: Captain, I have been considering the problem of the missing ship.
Although there is no record of a launch to the Ficus sector, which
would not be unusual considering the chaos of the early twenty second
century, someone had to load that ship. 
PICARD: The manifest. 
DATA: Yes, sir. 
PICARD: There it is. SS Mariposa, loaded 27th November, 2123.
Destination Ficus sector. Captain Walter Granger, commanding. 
DATA: Mariposa. The Spanish word for butterfly. 
PICARD: Thank you, Data. 
DATA: I thought it might be significant, sir. 
PICARD: It doesn't appear to be, Data. 
DATA: No, sir. 
PICARD: You learn a lot about people from their luggage. Two hundred
and twenty five Yoshimitsu computers, five monitor beacon satellites,
seven
hundred cellular commlinks, fifty spinning wheels. 
DATA: (over Picard) Spinning wheels? Accessing. A device for spinning
yarn or thread that consists of a large foot or hand driven wheel and
one spindle. 
PICARD: Cattle, chickens, pigs. Not DNA, the actual livestock.
Incredible. Why would anyone carry such an insane mix of cargo? 
DATA: Spindle, a thin rounded tapering rod 
PICARD: Data! 
DATA: Perhaps they were planning for the worst, sir. 
PICARD: Theorise, Data. Give me some background. 
DATA: In the early twenty-second century, Earth was recovering from
World War Three. A major philosopher of the period was Liam Dieghan,
founder of the Neo-Transcendentalists, who advocated a return to a
simpler life in which one lived in harmony with nature, and learned
under her gentle tutelage 
PICARD: Thank you, Data. But if this was a ship full of utopians, why
carry all this technological baggage? 
DATA: I have insufficient information from which to form a cogent
theory, sir. 
[Pulaski's office]

(Worf is carrying a tray) 
WORF: Doctor. I wished to thank you for protecting my 
PULASKI: Your secret is safe with me. Worf, I'm honoured. No one has
ever performed the Klingon tea ceremony for me. 
(She places some stones and a flower in the cups) 
PULASKI: There, that should do it. 
WORF: You know the ceremony? 
PULASKI: I understand the externals, not the mysteries. I'm not a
Klingon. 
WORF: You must not drink the tea. It is deadly to humans. 
PULASKI: And none too good for Klingons. 
WORF: It is a test of bravery, of one's ability to look at the face of
mortality. It is also a reminder that death is an experience best
shared, like the tea. 
PULASKI: Worf, you're a romantic. 
WORF: It is among the Klingons that love poetry achieves its fullest
flower. 
PULASKI: Hold that thought. 
(She dashes into Sickbay, returns with a hypo and injects herself) 
PULASKI: Antidote. If we're going to share, let's share. (they drink)
Now, quote me a little of that poetry.

