PULASKI PICARD [OC] DATA WORF PICARD
butterfly warrior rod considering wrong planning decrease blood satellites

[Sickbay]

WORF: I am fine. 
PULASKI: You're not fine. You fainted. 
WORF: I did not faint. Klingons do not faint. 
PULASKI: Excuse me, I'll rephrase. This Klingon suffered a dramatic
drop in blood pressure, his blood glucose level dropped, there was
deficient blood flow resulting from circulatory failure. In other
words, he curled up his toes and laid unconscious on the floor. 
WORF: Doctor, there is no need to insult me. 
PULASKI: Worf, I am worried. Now, something is wrong. Klingons don't
faint. Forgive me. I just can't think of another word that applies.
You're sick. 
WORF: Klingons do not give in to illness. 
PULASKI: Just stay right where you are. I have to check something with
the computer. Lieutenant, you have rop'ngor. 
WORF: But that is a childhood ailment! 
PULASKI: Yes. 
WORF: How shall I live down the humiliation? 
PULASKI: Worf, you can't help. 
WORF: Still, for a warrior to find himself in such a situation. 
PULASKI: So you've got the Klingon version of the measles. 
WORF: How would Commander Riker feel if he had the measles. 
PULASKI: Pretty silly. 
PICARD [OC]: Doctor Pulaski, how is Lieutenant Worf? 
PULASKI: He's in no danger. Worf was just observing a Klingon ritual
involving fasting, and he didn't take into account that you have to
decrease your physical activity as you decrease your caloric intake.
Pulaski out. 
WORF: Thank you. I am in your debt. 
[Ready room]

PICARD: Come. 
(Data enters) 
DATA: Captain, I have been considering the problem of the missing ship.
Although there is no record of a launch to the Ficus sector, which
would not be unusual considering the chaos of the early twenty second
century, someone had to load that ship. 
PICARD: The manifest. 
DATA: Yes, sir. 
PICARD: There it is. SS Mariposa, loaded 27th November, 2123.
Destination Ficus sector. Captain Walter Granger, commanding. 
DATA: Mariposa. The Spanish word for butterfly. 
PICARD: Thank you, Data. 
DATA: I thought it might be significant, sir. 
PICARD: It doesn't appear to be, Data. 
DATA: No, sir. 
PICARD: You learn a lot about people from their luggage. Two hundred
and twenty five Yoshimitsu computers, five monitor beacon satellites,
seven
hundred cellular commlinks, fifty spinning wheels. 
DATA: (over Picard) Spinning wheels? Accessing. A device for spinning
yarn or thread that consists of a large foot or hand driven wheel and
one spindle. 
PICARD: Cattle, chickens, pigs. Not DNA, the actual livestock.
Incredible. Why would anyone carry such an insane mix of cargo? 
DATA: Spindle, a thin rounded tapering rod 
PICARD: Data! 
DATA: Perhaps they were planning for the worst, sir. 
PICARD: Theorise, Data. Give me some background. 
DATA: In the early twenty-second century, Earth was recovering from
World War Three. A major philosopher of the period was Liam Dieghan,
founder of the Neo-Transcendentalists, who advocated a return to a
simpler life in which one lived in harmony with nature, and learned
under her gentle tutelage 
PICARD: Thank you, Data. But if this was a ship full of utopians, why
carry all this technological baggage? 
DATA: I have insufficient information from which to form a cogent
theory, sir. 
