PICARD TROI COMPUTER RIKER MADELINE
wants available complete calls amused better want tell told

[Ready room]

PICARD: I was what? I tell you, Deanna, for a
telepath, your mother's accuracy leaves much to be desired. 
TROI: Actually, her telepathic prowess is quite advanced. Except for
now. 
RIKER: Except for now? 
PICARD: Don't misunderstand me, Counsellor. Your mother is a beautiful
person, 
TROI: My mother is beginning a physiological phase. It's one that all
Betazoid women must deal with as they enter mid-life. 
RIKER: Yes, it's something Troi warned me about when we first started
to see each other. A Betazoid woman, when she goes through this phase,
quadruples her sex drive. 
TROI: Or more. 
RIKER: Or more? You never told me that. 
TROI: I didn't want to frighten you. She has opted for the only
dignified option open to her. 
RIKER: Isolation? 
TROI: She has decided to focus all of her sexual energy on one male,
who will, of course, eventually become her husband. It seems, Captain,
that you are the early favourite. 
RIKER: Congratulations, sir! 
PICARD: I'm not amused, Number One. There must be some way to convince
her that it's quite impossible, without offending her. 
TROI: You cannot apply human style logic to this, Captain. A Betazoid
woman in the phase would be shocked and deeply resentful, should you
spurn any such advances. She would take it personally. 
PICARD: Well, under the circumstances, I think it would be prudent if I
were to make myself less available for the duration of this journey. 
RIKER: Agreed.

[Outside the Holodeck]

PICARD: Setting, San Francisco California, United
States Of America. The year, 1945 A.D. The office of Dixon Hill,
Private Investigator. 
COMPUTER: Programme complete. You may enter when ready.

[Hill's outer office]

MADELINE: Hi, Dix. 
PICARD: Madeline. Good to see you again. 
MADELINE: You're too much, Dix. You make it sound like you ain't seen
me in a year. You got two calls. They're on your desk. 
PICARD: New cases? 
MADELINE: Are you kidding? The last time we had a new case, Hitler and
Stalin were
bosom buddies. The landlord came by. He wants the geetas or he wants
you out. 
PICARD: The geetas? 
MADELINE: The moolah, Dix. The rent. And since we're on the subject,
it's been a month since I seen anything. Now I know it's been
tough, since you got out of the hospital, but I got responsibilities. 
PICARD: Then I suppose I had better get a case. 
MADELINE: It wouldn't hurt. 
[Hill's office]

(Picard takes off his coat and hat, turns on the
radio and looks around. The song is 'Let's Get Away From It All, sung
by a group that sounds like the Beverly Sisters. He sits down, puts his
feet up on the desk and relaxes)

