TROI DATA [OC] PICARD PULASKI LWAXANA DATA
staying don absolutely dessert gadolinium permit rare reflexes special

[Lwaxana's quarters]

DATA [OC]: Or the oligarchy on Atifs Four, which
require a young 
PICARD: Data, this is fascinating. Don't you agree, Mrs. Troi?
Commander, if your duties permit, why don't you join us for dessert?
I'm sure that Mrs. Troi would much appreciate the pleasure of your
company. 
LWAXANA: What? 
[Bridge]

DATA: Indeed, sir. I'm on my way. Data out. 
[Lwaxana's quarters]

LWAXANA: How could you possibly think I would want
to share our special time together with that, that, robot of yours? 
PICARD: Because of Data's wonderful after-dinner conversation. His
anecdotes are the stuff of legends aboard this ship. 
(later) 
DATA: So, by using the square root of pi and multiplying it by nine to
the third power, I was able to accurately calculate the distance
between the Omicron system and the Crab Nebula. 
PICARD: Fascinating, Data, absolutely fascinating. I'm sure Mrs. Troi
would love to hear the one about the anomalous chemical composition of
brown dwarf stars. 
LWAXANA: Not really. 
DATA: Yes, Captain. That is a particularly spellbinding subject. In
most stars, the rare Earth element europium is enriched relative to
samarium and gadolinium 
LWAXANA: Is that so? 
DATA: It is. However, 
[Corridor]

PULASKI: Your mother seems quite an interesting
woman, Deanna. 
TROI: Perhaps I should tell you something about my mother's condition
at this time. 
PULASKI: Condition at this time? 
TROI: It's something that occurs to Betazoid females as they enter
mid-life. We call it the phase. 
PULASKI: Mid-life? As in a human female's menopause? 
TROI: Similar. It's only at mid-life that a Betazed female becomes,
well, fully sexual, if you know what I mean. 
PULASKI: Yes, I think I do. I also think that I saw the Captain on his
way to her quarters. 
TROI: I wonder if I shouldn't warn him? 
PULASKI: No. As ship's Doctor I'd consider it excellent exercise for
his reflexes and agility. 
TROI: Doctor ! 
PULASKI: For staying ahead of your mother. 
TROI: Yes. An animal is always at its best when hunted. 
PULASKI: Or when hunting.

