PICARD TROI DATA RIKER LWAXANA
style prowess number amused course pacifica completely misunderstand circumstances

[Corridor]

PICARD: Data, you will never know just how much I
owe you for that. 
DATA: Indeed, Captain? I know many more interesting anecdotes, sir. For
example, 
PICARD: Data. 
DATA: Sir? 
PICARD: Later. 
DATA: Yes, sir. 
[Lwaxana's quarters]

TROI: Why would you come aboard at a time like
this? 
LWAXANA: I had no choice. I was going to Pacifica, you were going to
Pacifica. 
TROI: Don't be absurd, Mother. You knew what would happen. 
[Corridor]

TROI: What stage is it in? 
LWAXANA: I have it completely under control. 
TROI: What stage is it in? 
LWAXANA: Well, far enough along for me to enjoy it, Little One. 
TROI: Now I know why you wore that dress. 
LWAXANA: Don't be ridiculous. This simple little dress? Nothing
provocative about it. 
TROI: What are we going to do? 
LWAXANA: I'm going to do the only honourable thing there is to do. And
I'd say your Captain has the inside track. 
TROI: Mother, don't even think it. 
LWAXANA: Why not? He was thinking about it all through dinner.

[Ready room]

PICARD: I was what? I tell you, Deanna, for a
telepath, your mother's accuracy leaves much to be desired. 
TROI: Actually, her telepathic prowess is quite advanced. Except for
now. 
RIKER: Except for now? 
PICARD: Don't misunderstand me, Counsellor. Your mother is a beautiful
person, 
TROI: My mother is beginning a physiological phase. It's one that all
Betazoid women must deal with as they enter mid-life. 
RIKER: Yes, it's something Troi warned me about when we first started
to see each other. A Betazoid woman, when she goes through this phase,
quadruples her sex drive. 
TROI: Or more. 
RIKER: Or more? You never told me that. 
TROI: I didn't want to frighten you. She has opted for the only
dignified option open to her. 
RIKER: Isolation? 
TROI: She has decided to focus all of her sexual energy on one male,
who will, of course, eventually become her husband. It seems, Captain,
that you are the early favourite. 
RIKER: Congratulations, sir! 
PICARD: I'm not amused, Number One. There must be some way to convince
her that it's quite impossible, without offending her. 
TROI: You cannot apply human style logic to this, Captain. A Betazoid
woman in the phase would be shocked and deeply resentful, should you
spurn any such advances. She would take it personally. 
PICARD: Well, under the circumstances, I think it would be prudent if I
were to make myself less available for the duration of this journey. 
RIKER: Agreed.

