TROI K'EHLEYR WORF DATA [OC] PICARD RIKER DATA CLANCEY LAFORGE
voyage perplexing option working presented mission possibility laid surrender

[Tactical room]

(Worf enters, with Data) 
K'EHLEYR: I've been working on our assignment, trying a few computer
simulations. 
WORF: Your devotion to duty is commendable, if belated. 
K'EHLEYR: Unwilling to be alone with me? 
WORF: I asked Lieutenant Commander Data to help us analyse the
alternatives. 
K'EHLEYR: An android chaperon. 
DATA: Android, of course, is correct, but I fail to see how chaperon is
applicable in this situation. 
K'EHLEYR: Never mind. I guess I can't blame you. Tell me one thing. You
would have gone through with the oath, wouldn't you? Regardless of the
consequences to our careers, to our lives? 
WORF: Honour demanded no less. 
K'EHLEYR: What do you want? Is honour all you care about? Don't you
feel anything else? No comment, huh? Poor android. Whose behaviour do
you find more perplexing? Human or Klingon? 
DATA: At the moment, I would find it difficult to choose. 
K'EHLEYR: So would I. Okay. When we locate the T'Ong, there are two
possibilities. First 
[Observation Lounge]

K'EHLEYR: We find the ship before it reaches the
awakening point. In that case, we simply keep the crew asleep. 
PICARD: Is that feasible? 
LAFORGE: We can beam an away team onto the T'Ong and override the
cryogenic controls, sure. 
K'EHLEYR: Then we await the arrival of the Klingon ship P'rang. 
TROI: So that when the T'Ong's crew awakens, they're surrounded by
their fellow Klingons. 
RIKER: That would be ideal. 
K'EHLEYR: But there's the second possibility. That the crew of the
T'Ong has already revived. 
LAFORGE: They realise they're in Federation territory and attack the
nearest outpost. 
TROI: They could have been on a scientific voyage. 
K'EHLEYR: Klingons of that ear doing research for its own sake? 
RIKER: The point is, they may be reasonable. 
K'EHLEYR: The point is that this is beside the point. These are
Klingons, at war with us. Whatever their mission was, once they see a
Federation target, they'll attack. 
PICARD: Could the T'Ong be disabled rather than destroyed? 
LAFORGE: We could probably knock out their warp drive engines without
damaging the rest of their ship. 
K'EHLEYR: That would gain you nothing. Disable the ship, and K'Temoc
will destroy it himself. 
WORF: Klingons do not surrender. 
K'EHLEYR: If we don't reach the T'Ong before its crew wakes up, you
have no alternatives. 
PICARD: I can't not accept that. There must be some way that we can
make the Klingons listen. If we can only convince them 
DATA [OC]: Captain, we are detecting a ship, 
[Bridge]

DATA: Bearing three one-six mark four two

[Observation lounge]

DATA [OC]: Extreme sensor range. 
PICARD: Lay in intercept course. Go to yellow alert.

[Bridge]

WORF: Shields are up. 
K'EHLEYR: Better lock in phasers. This may be the only chance you get. 
CLANCEY: Intercept course laid in. 
PICARD: Hold this position. Let's see if they've spotted us.
Magnification, one hundred. Mister Data? 
DATA: Sensors show life forms aboard, but I am unable to ascertain
whether they are awake or dormant. However, the vessel's propulsion
systems are inactive, so I would hypothesize that the crew is asleep. 
(So they get shot at) 
DATA: However, I could be in error. 
WORF: Shields holding. 
RIKER: They've cloaked themselves. 
K'EHLEYR: Well, Captain you've had your chance. 
(a few minutes later, La Forge enters) 
LAFORGE: Transferring Engineering to the Bridge. 
PICARD: Can you find them? 
LAFORGE: I think so. Those old shields weren't particularly efficient
at blocking gamma ray output. If I can tune the sensors to a particular
band of. There. Got them. Transferring coordinates to helm. 
PICARD: Intercept. Warp two. 
CLANCEY: Warp two, sir. 
K'EHLEYR: Captain let them die like Klingons, in battle. They deserve
that much. 
WORF: Captain. I have another option.

Captain's log, stardate 42901.3. Despite their
cloaking shields, we have located the Klingon vessel, T'Ong. In an
effort to avoid further confrontation, we're about to implement the
option presented by Lieutenant Worf. 
