RIKER WORF CLANCEY PICARD DATA GROMEK [on viewscreen]
starships woman luc cut scattered person carrying determine seal

[Bridge]

PICARD: Mister Data? 
DATA: Emergency signal reads as follows. Enterprise to divert to
coordinates four-two-three by one one two by five one immediately.
Further orders forthcoming. 
RIKER: That's it? What's the emergency? 
DATA: The message does not elaborate. 
RIKER: You'd think they'd at least give us a hint. 
CLANCEY: Course laid in, Captain. 
PICARD: Warp eight. Whenever Starfleet gets enigmatic, I know we're
about to face a challenge. Engage. 
DATA: Our destination is a point near the Boradis system. 
PICARD: That area was colonized fairly recently, as I recall. 
DATA: The first Federation outpost was established thirty four years
ago on Boradis Three. 
RIKER: Since then, the Federation has colonised several planets in that
sector. 
DATA: Yet we are not headed for a specific colony. The coordinates
given are outside the Boradis system. 
PICARD: Any problems reported in that area? 
DATA: None, sir. 
PICARD: What the devil is going on? 
WORF: Captain, Starfleet Command is hailing us. 
PICARD: About time. On screen. 
(a woman in Starfleet uniform is sitting behind a desk) 
GROMEK [on viewscreen]: Greetings, Captain Picard. 
PICARD: My compliments, Admiral Gromek. 
GROMEK [on viewscreen]: Captain, you will soon be joined by a
Federation special emissary from Starbase One Five Three. We Are now
transmitting the specifics. 
DATA: We are receiving, sir. 
GROMEK [on viewscreen]: The rendezvous will be a bit tricky, so it is
imperative you reach the intercept point on schedule. 
PICARD: Understood. And the mission? 
GROMEK [on viewscreen]: The envoy will fill you in. You are to
cooperate fully. 
PICARD: Admiral, can you give me any details? 
GROMEK [on viewscreen]: Negative. 
PICARD: Admiral, it's a little difficult to prepare for a mission I
know nothing about. 
GROMEK [on viewscreen]: I sympathise, Jean-Luc, but Starfleet Command
considers this a top security matter. Once the envoy has briefed you, I
think you will understand our caution. Gromek out. 
RIKER: Data, what ship is carrying the envoy? 
DATA: Apparently there were no starships available on Starbase One Five
Three. The envoy is aboard a class eight probe. 
RIKER: A class eight probe is just over two metres long. 
PICARD: Yes, that's true, Number One. But if the transmitters and the
sensors were removed and life-support installed, there would be just
enough room for one person. 
RIKER: And it is designed to travel at warp nine. 
DATA: By sending the probe to meet us rather than diverting the
Enterprise, they are saving us six point one hours. 
PICARD: Obviously Starfleet feels that time is of the essence. 
RIKER: But still, to seal someone inside a class eight Probe and launch
it off. It's a hell of a way to transport a Federation dignitary. 
CLANCEY: (an elegant brunette with cut glass vowels) Coming to three
one mark one one three.
i
DATA: We are on a course precisely parallel to the probe, sir. 
PICARD: Increase speed to warp eight point nine. 
CLANCEY: Eight point nine, aye. 
PICARD: Full sensors aft. 
WORF: Scanning. 
RIKER: Data, if we project our course beyond the rendezvous
coordinates, what lies ahead? 
DATA: As far as I can determine, sir, very little. There are four
colonies in the
Boradis system, as well as nine other outposts scattered throughout the
sector. 
WORF: I have it, sir. Bearing zero five mark two three one. Velocity,
warp nine. 
CLANCEY: I see it. 
PICARD: Adjust speed to intercept. 
WORF: Probe is coming up to starboard. Range, eighty two hundred.
Tractor beam ready. 
PICARD: Mister La Forge? 

