RIKER KOLRAMI LAFORGE WORF PICARD NAGEL TROI PULASKI WESLEY RIKER [on viewscreen] DATA BURKE
scepticism lost thirty assignment challenge leads prior beams plasma

[Hathaway
Engineering]


(We
are
looking out from the warp core.)
WESLEY: The lining's still smooth. We should to be able to do something
with these dilithium fragments we scavenged. 
LAFORGE: Sure, the system is functional. But without antimatter, what
difference does it make? 
WESLEY: Geordi, I have to return to the Enterprise. 
LAFORGE: Wes, we've only got thirty two hours. 
WESLEY: This is important. 
LAFORGE: And this isn't?


[Hathaway
Bridge]


WORF:
Attempt the routing bypass here. If it works, they will be surprised.
NAGEL: Where am I going to get the opticable? 
(Worf reaches up and pulls down a handful of fibreoptics) 
WORF: Anywhere. 
WESLEY: Captain? I left an experiment running back on the Enterprise.
May I go back and shut it down? 
RIKER: It's that important? 
WESLEY: It has to be monitored. And it is my final grade in plasma
physics.


[Bridge]


BURKE:
Message from the Hathaway, sir.
PICARD: On screen. 
RIKER [on viewscreen]: Request permission for Ensign Crusher to reboard
the Enterprise. 
PICARD: Why? 
RIKER [on viewscreen]: Apparently he was so anxious to be join the away
team, he left a very critical experiment unattended. 
PICARD: Have you any objection? 
KOLRAMI: He should be escorted, and have no contact with anything save
his research. 
PICARD: Permission granted. Mister Burke, will you handle that? 
BURKE: Aye, sir. 
KOLRAMI: I saw no sense in Riker choosing him anyway. Just a
non-commissioned child.


[Engineering]


WESLEY:
I can't believe I forgot about this. It's a good lesson not to let
excitement cloud your thinking.
BURKE: Yeah. 
WESLEY: It's very dull. I spent six weeks setting this up. 
BURKE: Lot of work. 
WESLEY: Oh, no. This is ruined. 
BURKE: That's too bad. Look, is this going to take much longer? 
WESLEY: I'm going to have to dispose of this safely It's very volatile.
I'll beam it off the Enterprise and leave it particalised. 
BURKE: Fine, let's just do it. 
WESLEY: I'll transfer the coordinates to the transporter room.


[Hathaway
Engineering]

(Wesley's
experiment apparatus beams in.)


[Ten
Forward]


(The
two
contestants are being set up like before.)
DATA: In the present context, what did she mean by bust him up? 
TROI: In her own way, Doctor Pulaski was instructing you to take the
shortest route to victory. 
DATA: As opposed to what? 
BURKE: Ready? Begin. 
(General babble of delight as Data seems to keep pace with Kolrami,
right up to when he lost 081 to 100) 
PULASKI: I can't believe it. The computer beaten by flesh and blood. 
TROI: You advanced quite far against such a worthy opponent. 
KOLRAMI: Thoroughly enjoyable, Mister Data. I am at your disposal for a
rematch. 
DATA: Thank you, but what would be the point? 
(Kolrami leaves) 
PULASKI: How can you lose? You're supposed to be infallible! 
DATA: Obviously, I am not.


[Bridge]


PICARD:
Ensign, where is Commander Data?
(cough - he was Lieutenant a few scenes ago!) 
BURKE: He has temporarily removed himself from bridge duty, sir. 
KOLRAMI: Your crew is excellently trained, Captain. A tribute to your
leadership. Although I doubt their extensive preparation will be
needed. 
PICARD: Why is that? 
KOLRAMI: I do not expect Captain Riker will present much of a
challenge. 
PICARD: Mister Kolrami, may I speak with you in private?


[Ready
room]


PICARD:
I would like to know the root of your prejudice for my First Officer.
KOLRAMI: Captain, I 
PICARD: Mister Kolrami, you have been nothing but denigrating and
abusive of Commander Riker since coming aboard this ship. Now I would
like some explanation. 
KOLRAMI: Having studied William Riker's file prior to this assignment,
I have found him wanting. 
PICARD: In what regard? 
KOLRAMI: His work record is exemplary, but, as you well know, a
starship captain is not manufactured. He, or she, is born from inside.
From the character of the individual. My interviews have revealed a man
who displays circumstantially
inappropriate joviality, belying the seriousness of his station. 
PICARD: Don't confuse style with intent. Only a fool would question
Commander Riker's dedication to Starfleet and the men and women under
his command. He is simply the finest officer with whom I have ever
served. 
KOLRAMI: We shall see if your faith is well founded. 
PICARD: The test is if a crew will follow where Commander Riker leads.
His joviality is the means by which he creates that loyalty. And I will
match his command style with your statistics any time.


[Data's
quarters]


DATA:
Come in, please.
TROI: Data. 
DATA: Counsellor. Is something wrong? 
TROI: That was going to be my question. 
DATA: With my repository of knowledge, I expected to perform better
against a humanoid life form. 
TROI: You know, some of our greatest advances have come from analysing
failure. While it can be ego-bruising 
DATA: But Counsellor, I do not have an ego. 
TROI: Yes. Well, a loss can be disheartening. 
DATA: But Counsellor, I do not have a 
TROI: Data. You can handle defeat in two ways. You can lose confidence,
or you can learn from your mistakes. 
DATA: That is what troubles me. I made no mistakes. I have conducted a
diagnostic check of all of my programs. I am cross-checking with the
ship's computer. 
TROI: Is that all necessary? 
DATA: I believe so. I have proven to be vulnerable. At the present
time, my deductions should be treated with scepticism. 
TROI: That is why you haven't been on the Bridge. 
DATA: Yes. The Captain would be ill advised to rely upon my judgement. 
TROI: I think you're really over-reacting. I'm sure you're all right. 
DATA: I, however, am not sure.


