PICARD RIKER KOLRAMI WORF DATA
province borg millennia rest bring computer ready options innately

[Observation
lounge]

(As they
were walking through
the Bridge, we could see that Kolrami takes two quick steps to Riker's
one stride. He's a short, round, busy person.) 
PICARD: Mister Kolrami. Captain Jean-Luc Picard. Welcome aboard. 
KOLRAMI: Captain. I bring greetings from those at Starfleet Command. 
PICARD: Would you care to be shown to your quarters? 
KOLRAMI: I require little rest, Captain. I prefer that we commence with
our mission.

WORF:
Despite
their reputations, this Zakdorn
does not appear to be
a very formidable warrior 
DATA: In
the game of military brinksmanship, individual physical
prowess is less important than the perception of
a species as a whole. For over nine millennia, potential foes have
regarded the Zakdorns as having the greatest innately strategic minds
in the galaxy. 
WORF: So no one is willing to test that perception in combat. 
DATA: Exactly. 
WORF: Then the reputation means nothing.

[Observation
lounge]

(Kolrami
is giving a
presentation at the viewscreen.)

KOLRAMI:
The Braslota System. In orbit around the second planet is the
eighty-year old Starcruiser, Hathaway.
He is still your first choice? 
PICARD: Commander Riker will captain the Hathaway. 
KOLRAMI: You will have forty eight hours to ready your vessel before
the Enterprise attacks. 
RIKER: And we'll experience actual battle conditions? 
KOLRAMI: Correct. Engineering will disconnect the Enterprise's weapons
and link the system with the modified laser-pulse beam. All hits will
be recorded electronically. If the computer registers damage, it will
act
accordingly, shutting down the affected areas for the appropriate
repair time. Additional questions? Captain Picard, it is my
understanding that you initially resisted Starfleet's request for this
simulation. 
PICARD: Yes. 
KOLRAMI: May I know why? 
PICARD: Starfleet is not a military organisation. Its purpose is
exploration. 
KOLRAMI: Then why am I here? 
PICARD: With the Borg threat, I decided that my officers and I needed
to hone our tactical skills. In a crisis situation, it is prudent to
have several options. 
RIKER: I prefer brains over brawn as well. I think it's a waste of
effort to test our combat skills. It's a minor province in the make-up
of a starship captain. 
KOLRAMI: Your objection is noted. Let us hope your distaste for the
exercise will not affect your strategic abilities. 
RIKER: Mister Kolrami, when I agree to do something. I do it. Do you
care to surrender now, Captain?

