TROI KOLRAMI LAFORGE PICARD RIKER PULASKI WESLEY DATA BURKE

[Bridge]


PICARD:
Ensign, where is Commander Data?
(cough - he was Lieutenant a few scenes ago!) 
BURKE: He has temporarily removed himself from bridge duty, sir. 
KOLRAMI: Your crew is excellently trained, Captain. A tribute to your
leadership. Although I doubt their extensive preparation will be
needed. 
PICARD: Why is that? 
KOLRAMI: I do not expect Captain Riker will present much of a
challenge. 
PICARD: Mister Kolrami, may I speak with you in private?


[Ready
room]


PICARD:
I would like to know the root of your prejudice for my First Officer.
KOLRAMI: Captain, I 
PICARD: Mister Kolrami, you have been nothing but denigrating and
abusive of Commander Riker since coming aboard this ship. Now I would
like some explanation. 
KOLRAMI: Having studied William Riker's file prior to this assignment,
I have found him wanting. 
PICARD: In what regard? 
KOLRAMI: His work record is exemplary, but, as you well know, a
starship captain is not manufactured. He, or she, is born from inside.
From the character of the individual. My interviews have revealed a man
who displays circumstantially
inappropriate joviality, belying the seriousness of his station. 
PICARD: Don't confuse style with intent. Only a fool would question
Commander Riker's dedication to Starfleet and the men and women under
his command. He is simply the finest officer with whom I have ever
served. 
KOLRAMI: We shall see if your faith is well founded. 
PICARD: The test is if a crew will follow where Commander Riker leads.
His joviality is the means by which he creates that loyalty. And I will
match his command style with your statistics any time.


[Data's
quarters]


DATA:
Come in, please.
TROI: Data. 
DATA: Counsellor. Is something wrong? 
TROI: That was going to be my question. 
DATA: With my repository of knowledge, I expected to perform better
against a humanoid life form. 
TROI: You know, some of our greatest advances have come from analysing
failure. While it can be ego-bruising 
DATA: But Counsellor, I do not have an ego. 
TROI: Yes. Well, a loss can be disheartening. 
DATA: But Counsellor, I do not have a 
TROI: Data. You can handle defeat in two ways. You can lose confidence,
or you can learn from your mistakes. 
DATA: That is what troubles me. I made no mistakes. I have conducted a
diagnostic check of all of my programs. I am cross-checking with the
ship's computer. 
TROI: Is that all necessary? 
DATA: I believe so. I have proven to be vulnerable. At the present
time, my deductions should be treated with scepticism. 
TROI: That is why you haven't been on the Bridge. 
DATA: Yes. The Captain would be ill advised to rely upon my judgement. 
TROI: I think you're really over-reacting. I'm sure you're all right. 
DATA: I, however, am not sure.


[Hathaway
Engineering]


(Wesley's
experiment is being put into a wall panel.)
LAFORGE: Easy now. Is that it? 
WESLEY: Yeah. 
LAFORGE: Good. Good work. All right, Hand me the connector on that kit.

RIKER: What is that? 
WESLEY: My experiment from the Enterprise. 
RIKER: Wes? 
WESLEY: It deals with high energy plasma reactions with anti-matter. 
RIKER: You went back to the Enterprise for that? Wes, you cheated. 
WESLEY: No, sir. You told me to improvise. 
LAFORGE: The hard part's going to be calibrating the thermal curve
necessary to start a controlled reaction. 
RIKER: Assuming you can, can you regulate the reaction? 
WESLEY: There's just enough crystal to do it. We plan to channel the
reaction through the chips. 
LAFORGE: Are we good? 
RIKER: You're better than good. Great. Brilliant. It's going to be fun.
Carry on.


[Data's
quarters]


DATA:
Come in, please.
PULASKI: All right, Data, enough of this. 
DATA: Doctor? 
PULASKI: How long are you going to sit sulking like Achilles in his
tent? 
DATA: I am conducting diagnostic 
PULASKI: You may be able to sell Troi that story, but not me. You're
smarting because you were beaten. Well, it happens. 
DATA: No, Doctor, this is not ego. I am concerned about giving the
Captain unsound advice. 
PULASKI: I wish I had never manoeuvred you into playing that game. I'm
sorry. 
DATA: Why, Doctor? It is done, and perhaps just as well. This has
indicated that I am damaged in some fashion. I must find the
malfunction.


[Hathaway
Engineering]


RIKER:
The simulation begins in one hour.
LAFORGE: You'll have warp drive, Captain, though it may not be what you
expected. 
RIKER: I think that deserves some kind of explanation. 
LAFORGE: We'll have warp one for about 
WESLEY: Just under two seconds. 
RIKER: That's not long enough for an escape, but used as a surprise it
may give a strategic advantage. 
LAFORGE: Sir, all of this is theoretical. 
RIKER: And if your theory fails to pay off? 
LAFORGE: Ever driven a Grenthemen Water Hopper? 
RIKER: Yes. 
LAFORGE: Ever popped the clutch? 
RIKER: You're saying we're going to stall the Hathaway? 
WESLEY: And the Enterprise will waltz right over and pulverise us.


[Ready
room]


PICARD:
Let me try to understand. You're saying that Commander Data is
suffering from a profound loss of confidence, and that you believe only
I can restore the balance?
TROI: Yes, sir. 
PULASKI: Both Deanna and I have tried, but we're not getting through to
him. 
PICARD: Don't you think you both might be overreacting? Data is not
capable of the emotions which you are assigning to him. 
PULASKI: The effects are the same, whether they're caused by human
emotions or android algorithms. Data's not on the Bridge, and I don't
think Data's going to be on the Bridge until we find some way to
address his problem. 
PICARD: I am less than an hour away from a battle simulation, and I
have to hand-hold an android. 
PULASKI: The burdens of command.


[Data's
quarters]


DATA:
Come in, please.
PICARD: Commander, I require your presence on the Bridge. 
DATA: Captain, with all due respect, perhaps it would be better if you
choose another to serve as your First Officer. 
PICARD: Data, you are my First Officer. 
DATA: I have not been able to isolate the problem, sir. I might make a
mistake. 
PICARD: Yes, you might. But that does not alter your duty to me and to
this ship. Now, do you know how to formulate a premise? 
DATA: Yes, sir. 
PICARD: Then formulate this one. How do I deal Riker and the Hathaway?
I will await your answer on the Bridge. 
And, Commander, it is possible to commit no mistakes and still lose.
That is not a weakness. That is life. 
DATA: I believe I understand, sir. 
PICARD: And Data, will you leave your hesitation and self-doubt here in
your quarters.


[Observation
lounge]


DATA:
I
have several examples of Commander Riker's battle technique. At the
Academy, he calculated a sensory blind spot on a Tholian vessel and hid
within it during a battle simulation. And as a lieutenant aboard the
Potemkin, his solution to a crisis was to shut down all power, and hang
over a planet's magnetic poles, thus confusing his opponent's sensors. 
TROI: And from these specifics, what general conclusion can you
extrapolate? 
DATA: Only twenty-one percent of the time does he rely upon traditional
tactics. So, the Captain must be prepared
for unusual cunning. Counsellor, Commander Riker will assume we have
made this analysis, and knowing that we know his methods, he will alter
them. But, knowing that we know that he knows that we know, he might
choose to return to his usual pattern. 
TROI: Wait, wait. You're over-analysing, Data. One cannot deny human
nature. What kind of a man is Commander Riker? 
DATA: A fighter? 
TROI: Yes. 
DATA: The weaker his position, the more aggressive will be his posture.

TROI: And he won't give up. 
DATA: Then despite whatever options he is given, he must be 
TROI: The man that he is. Exactly. 
DATA: Is that a failing in humans? 
TROI: You'll have to decide that for yourself.


