PULASKI PICARD RIKER KOLRAMI DATA
attacks starcruiser tactical year select charmer team agree hope

[Observation
lounge]

(Kolrami
is giving a
presentation at the viewscreen.)

KOLRAMI:
The Braslota System. In orbit around the second planet is the
eighty-year old Starcruiser, Hathaway.
He is still your first choice? 
PICARD: Commander Riker will captain the Hathaway. 
KOLRAMI: You will have forty eight hours to ready your vessel before
the Enterprise attacks. 
RIKER: And we'll experience actual battle conditions? 
KOLRAMI: Correct. Engineering will disconnect the Enterprise's weapons
and link the system with the modified laser-pulse beam. All hits will
be recorded electronically. If the computer registers damage, it will
act
accordingly, shutting down the affected areas for the appropriate
repair time. Additional questions? Captain Picard, it is my
understanding that you initially resisted Starfleet's request for this
simulation. 
PICARD: Yes. 
KOLRAMI: May I know why? 
PICARD: Starfleet is not a military organisation. Its purpose is
exploration. 
KOLRAMI: Then why am I here? 
PICARD: With the Borg threat, I decided that my officers and I needed
to hone our tactical skills. In a crisis situation, it is prudent to
have several options. 
RIKER: I prefer brains over brawn as well. I think it's a waste of
effort to test our combat skills. It's a minor province in the make-up
of a starship captain. 
KOLRAMI: Your objection is noted. Let us hope your distaste for the
exercise will not affect your strategic abilities. 
RIKER: Mister Kolrami, when I agree to do something. I do it. Do you
care to surrender now, Captain?

[Bridge]

PICARD:
Well, Number One, you
are allowed a complement
of forty, so select whom you
will, save of course Mister Data,
who will serve as my
first officer during your
absence. 
KOLRAMI:
I had envisioned you defining the crew. 
PICARD: On my ship, the leader of an away team has total control of the
mission. If you want to judge leadership, why not start at the
beginning? 
KOLRAMI: Very well, Captain. 
(Kolrami leaves)
PULASKI: My, what a charmer. 
PICARD: Doctor. 
PULASKI: Captain, he needs an attitude adjustment. 
DATA: The Zakdornian culture is replete with self-assuredness and
confidence. Seldom is it undeserved. For example, Kolrami is a third
level grand master at the game of Strategema.

