PULASKI PICARD RIKER TROI
forget irregular aye hang thought feel spread dangerously hammer

[Sickbay]

PICARD: Comfortable? 
RIKER: Why wouldn't I be comfortable? They're waiting on me hand and
foot. I hope that they don't find out that I'm faking it. 
PICARD: I wish you were faking it. I've seen the thorn. 
RIKER: Yes, Doctor showed it to me, too. Rather harmless-looking thing,
I thought. 
PICARD: And deadly. I'm sorry. 
RIKER: Well, these things happen. 
PICARD: When least expected. 
RIKER: I'm surprised they don't happen more often. After all, we are
exploring the unknown. 
PICARD: And the unknown can be benign or malevolent. 
RIKER: Captain, one of the things I've learned anything on these
voyages, on this ship, and from you, is that most life forms act out of
an instinct for survival, not out of malice. 
PICARD: It's an important lesson, and I admire your lack of resentment,
Number One. 
RIKER: If you drop a hammer on your foot, it's hardly useful to get mad
at the hammer.

[Pulaski's office]

PICARD: Anything? 
PULASKI: Not yet. 
PICARD: What can I do? 
PULASKI: You can get out of my hair. 
PICARD: Aye aye, Doctor.

[Sickbay]

(A male nurse is scanning Riker to check the
progress of the infection) 
RIKER: This bug is persistent, I'll admit that. But I'm not worried. We
Rikers are ornery, too. As a matter of fact, my great grandfather once
got bit by a rattlesnake. After three days of intense pain, the snake
died. 
TROI: You're a very entertaining patient. 
RIKER: I try. 
TROI: Yes. you're making quite an effort to be cheerful. 
RIKER: You, of all people, should know. 
TROI: You feel what anyone in your position would feel. 
RIKER: As the First Officer on this ship, I have to set an example. 
TROI: Even now? 
RIKER: Now more than ever. Deanna, facing death is the ultimate test of
character. I don't want to die, but if I have to, I'd like to do it
with a little pride. 
TROI: And a lot of impudence. 
RIKER: You bet. Dying is bad enough but, to lose my sense of humour?
Forget it. 
TROI: Imzadi. 
RIKER: I haven't given up yet. 
(But his eyes close and the machine beeps a warning as his indicators
drop into the red. Pulaski runs in) 
PULASKI: It's spread to the spinal column. It's weakening his autonomic
nervous system. Judging by its present rate of growth and its
infiltration pattern, the infection will spread to the brain within an
hour.

Medical log, Stardate 42976.3. I can't keep the
alien infection from spreading to Commander Riker's brain. Once there,
it will kill him by dampening neural impulses. The only way I can keep
him alive is to force the neurons to stay active by stimulating them
directly with electrical impulses.

[Sickbay]

(Riker has been stripped of his uniform and covered
with a blanket. Above and around his head is a framework with what look
like five giant hypodermic needles pointing towards his head. Troi
winces as each goes in) 
PULASKI: Let's proceed. 
(The needles extend themselves down into Riker's brain) 
PULASKI: Good. Stand by with five milligrams of tricordrazine in case
of seizure. Here goes. 
(Riker's eyelids flutter, and we go off into his 'memories' as
triggered by the treatment, and the need to produce a very cheap
episode)

[The Last Outpost]

RIKER: (alone in a hostile land) Tasha? Data?
Geordi? Worf? Anybody?

[Sickbay]

PULASKI: We've stimulated random wave activity, but
the patterns are dangerously erratic. 
TROI: Hang on, Will. Hang on. 
PULASKI: The wave patterns are still too irregular. 
TROI: Why won't they stabilise? 
PULASKI: Wait. I've found the right amplitude. There. The patterns are
steadier. 
TROI: Is the stimulation preventing the infection from taking hold? 
PULASKI: For now. The vertex waves indicate a K-complex corresponding
to an REM state. 
TROI: He's dreaming.

