TROI RIKER PULASKI KLAG QUINN KARGAN
case seventeen stomach opposite stronger authority team yes totally

[The Child - Troi's quarters]

PULASKI: I'm losing life signs. 
TROI: You must save him. 
PULASKI: I'm sorry. 
[Sickbay]

PULASKI: Growth rate has definitely slowed. What is
he feeling? Can you tell? 
TROI: Sadness. 
PULASKI: Which is the opposite of before, and it's having the opposite
effect on the infection. 
TROI: Then your theory's correct. The organisms are sensitive to
different types of endorphins. 
PULASKI: And negative emotions 
TROI: Such as sadness 
PULASKI: Produce endorphins that inhibit the organisms' growth. 
TROI: Then we've found a way to repel the infection. 
PULASKI: Assuming we're not too late already. 
TROI: How much time do we have? 
PULASKI: I'm not sure. His vital signs are getting weaker. I don't want
to risk another dose of tricordrazine unless I have to. I must refocus
the pattern again. We need to isolate memories that generate stronger
negative emotions.

[A Matter of Honour - Pagh Bridge]

I know I can count on every Klingon warrior in this
crew to serve and die in that battle. So I ask you again, Commander
Riker. Where are your loyalties? 
RIKER: I have been assigned to serve this ship and to obey your orders.
And I will do exactly that. 
KARGAN: Will you take an oath to that effect? 
RIKER: I just did. 
KLAG: (in Klingon) Do not believe him! He lies! 
KARGAN: (in Klingon) Speak in their language. This is your Second
Officer, Lieutenant Klag. 
RIKER: Is there something you wanted to say to me, Lieutenant? 
KLAG: Yes sir. I do not believe you. 
RIKER: Then I take it you challenge my authority over you. 
KLAG: Correct. 
RIKER: And your position on this, Captain? 
KARGAN: I would say it your first command decision. 
(Riker looks around and thumps Klag in the stomach before throwing him
on the floor, then kicking him down before he can get up again, and
finally ramming his head into a computer panel. Lots of sparks. Kargan
laughs)

[Conspiracy - Quinn's quarters]

RIKER: Ready for your tour, Admiral? 
QUINN: Quite ready, Commander. 
RIKER: What's in the case? 
QUINN: Actually, I brought it for Doctor Crusher. But perhaps you would
like you to see it first? 
RIKER: What is it? 
QUINN: A form of life. It was discovered accidentally by a survey team
on an uncharted planet. 
RIKER: Why haven't we heard anything about that? 
QUINN: Oh, you'll be hearing about it shortly, but first there remains
much scientific study to be done. After all, it is a superior form of
life. 
RIKER: Superior? 
QUINN: Totally. Come, have a look. 
RIKER: I think I'll summon my Science Officer. 
(Quinn grabs his arm with a surprising amount of strength) 
QUINN: It won't like your Science Officer. It does like you! Vitamins.
They do wonders for the body. 
(There's a very one-sided fight - Quinn easily throws Riker around the
room)
RIKER: Riker to Security. Guest quarters seventeen. Emergency. 
(Quinn knocks Riker out cold)

[Skin of Evil]

[Sickbay]

PULASKI: We've reduced the growth rate even
further, but not enough. And his vital signs are deteriorating. 
TROI: But we've isolated the specific areas to stimulate. The feelings
were primal. Survival emotions. 
PULASKI: They must be producing a type of endorphin that's poisonous to
the organisms. 
TROI: Can't you intensify that emotion? 
PULASKI: I can refocus the impulse pattern even tighter. But I don't
know if he can withstand it. He's extremely weak. 
TROI: Do we have a choice? 
PULASKI: No. If we don't neutralise the infection, within half an hour
he'll be dead.

Medical log, supplemental. Commander Riker's
condition is still critical. I've discovered a way to reverse the
infection's growth rate, but I may be too late. 
