TROI LAFORGE PICARD RIKER PULASKI DATA
room humour aye away quite feel let impulses hammer

[Steamy mangrove swamp]

LAFORGE: He was right over here. 
DATA: I am detecting no animal life within fifty kilometres. However, I
am reading extensive animal remains, mostly fossilised. 
LAFORGE: A graveyard? 
DATA: I do not know. 
LAFORGE: Data, that a look at this. 
(an external root) 
DATA: The structure is rhizomatous. 
LAFORGE: Careful. 
DATA: I am always careful. 
DATA: It appears to be dead. 
LAFORGE: I'm not so sure. I can see thermal variations. Let it go for a
second, Data. Let's try something. Perhaps it likes humans more than
androids. 
DATA: If you are correct, you are placing yourself in grave danger. 
LAFORGE: I'm counting on those great android reflexes of yours. 
(Even as he spoke, the root moved towards Geordi, and Data grabbed it) 
LAFORGE: That must be what we're looking for. 
DATA: I would tend to agree. 
(Geordi phasers the wicked thorn from the side of the root. This seems
to hurt the plant) 
LAFORGE: Stand by, O'Brien. Got it. Energise!

[Transporter room]

LAFORGE: Thanks, O'Brien. Another minute, and we'd
have been fossils ourselves. 
DATA: Not precisely, Geordi. True fossilisation requires several
millennia. 
LAFORGE: Here's your sample, Captain. 
PICARD: Get it to Sickbay right away. 
(La Forge leaves) 
PICARD: Report. 
DATA: Captain, Commander Riker's injury was not accidental. Certain
vines on the planet evidently seek out warm-blooded beings and
deliberately infect them. 
PICARD: To what end? 
DATA: Unknown, sir. It is conceivable there is a symbiotic relationship
involved. 
PICARD: Go on. 
DATA: There are numerous animal remains in the area, leading me to
hypothesize that the vines could be predatory. 
PICARD: Vines infect animals in order to kill them? 
DATA: It is possible. For Commander Riker's sake, I hope my hypothesis
is in error. 
PICARD: Unfortunately, Mister Data, your hypotheses rarely are.

[Pulaski's office] 
PULASKI: All negative. 
PICARD: Is there nothing that will cure this infection?
PULASKI: This microorganism is very mysterious. I can't even figure out
what's keeping it alive. 
PICARD: Or how to kill it. 
PULASKI: Oh, I can kill it but not without destroying the nerves it's
inhabiting. 
PICARD: I know you're doing your best, Doctor. 
PULASKI: My best may not be good enough.

[Sickbay]

PICARD: Comfortable? 
RIKER: Why wouldn't I be comfortable? They're waiting on me hand and
foot. I hope that they don't find out that I'm faking it. 
PICARD: I wish you were faking it. I've seen the thorn. 
RIKER: Yes, Doctor showed it to me, too. Rather harmless-looking thing,
I thought. 
PICARD: And deadly. I'm sorry. 
RIKER: Well, these things happen. 
PICARD: When least expected. 
RIKER: I'm surprised they don't happen more often. After all, we are
exploring the unknown. 
PICARD: And the unknown can be benign or malevolent. 
RIKER: Captain, one of the things I've learned anything on these
voyages, on this ship, and from you, is that most life forms act out of
an instinct for survival, not out of malice. 
PICARD: It's an important lesson, and I admire your lack of resentment,
Number One. 
RIKER: If you drop a hammer on your foot, it's hardly useful to get mad
at the hammer.

[Pulaski's office]

PICARD: Anything? 
PULASKI: Not yet. 
PICARD: What can I do? 
PULASKI: You can get out of my hair. 
PICARD: Aye aye, Doctor.

[Sickbay]

(A male nurse is scanning Riker to check the
progress of the infection) 
RIKER: This bug is persistent, I'll admit that. But I'm not worried. We
Rikers are ornery, too. As a matter of fact, my great grandfather once
got bit by a rattlesnake. After three days of intense pain, the snake
died. 
TROI: You're a very entertaining patient. 
RIKER: I try. 
TROI: Yes. you're making quite an effort to be cheerful. 
RIKER: You, of all people, should know. 
TROI: You feel what anyone in your position would feel. 
RIKER: As the First Officer on this ship, I have to set an example. 
TROI: Even now? 
RIKER: Now more than ever. Deanna, facing death is the ultimate test of
character. I don't want to die, but if I have to, I'd like to do it
with a little pride. 
TROI: And a lot of impudence. 
RIKER: You bet. Dying is bad enough but, to lose my sense of humour?
Forget it. 
TROI: Imzadi. 
RIKER: I haven't given up yet. 
(But his eyes close and the machine beeps a warning as his indicators
drop into the red. Pulaski runs in) 
PULASKI: It's spread to the spinal column. It's weakening his autonomic
nervous system. Judging by its present rate of growth and its
infiltration pattern, the infection will spread to the brain within an
hour.

Medical log, Stardate 42976.3. I can't keep the
alien infection from spreading to Commander Riker's brain. Once there,
it will kill him by dampening neural impulses. The only way I can keep
him alive is to force the neurons to stay active by stimulating them
directly with electrical impulses.

