RIKER PICARD TROI TJON PULASKI QUINN

[Conspiracy - Quinn's quarters]

RIKER: Ready for your tour, Admiral? 
QUINN: Quite ready, Commander. 
RIKER: What's in the case? 
QUINN: Actually, I brought it for Doctor Crusher. But perhaps you would
like you to see it first? 
RIKER: What is it? 
QUINN: A form of life. It was discovered accidentally by a survey team
on an uncharted planet. 
RIKER: Why haven't we heard anything about that? 
QUINN: Oh, you'll be hearing about it shortly, but first there remains
much scientific study to be done. After all, it is a superior form of
life. 
RIKER: Superior? 
QUINN: Totally. Come, have a look. 
RIKER: I think I'll summon my Science Officer. 
(Quinn grabs his arm with a surprising amount of strength) 
QUINN: It won't like your Science Officer. It does like you! Vitamins.
They do wonders for the body. 
(There's a very one-sided fight - Quinn easily throws Riker around the
room)
RIKER: Riker to Security. Guest quarters seventeen. Emergency. 
(Quinn knocks Riker out cold)

[Skin of Evil]

[Sickbay]

PULASKI: We've reduced the growth rate even
further, but not enough. And his vital signs are deteriorating. 
TROI: But we've isolated the specific areas to stimulate. The feelings
were primal. Survival emotions. 
PULASKI: They must be producing a type of endorphin that's poisonous to
the organisms. 
TROI: Can't you intensify that emotion? 
PULASKI: I can refocus the impulse pattern even tighter. But I don't
know if he can withstand it. He's extremely weak. 
TROI: Do we have a choice? 
PULASKI: No. If we don't neutralise the infection, within half an hour
he'll be dead.

Medical log, supplemental. Commander Riker's
condition is still critical. I've discovered a way to reverse the
infection's growth rate, but I may be too late. 
[Sickbay]

TROI: He's getting weaker, isn't he? 
PULASKI: Respiration shallow, heartbeat extremely irregular, but we
can't delay any longer.

[Symbiosis - Observation lounge]

(T'Jon uses his electric power on Riker) 
T'JON: You will take us to our planet and leave us there with our
medicine or this person dies. Don't you see I have no choice? We were
sent to bring the felicium back. The suffering on my planet is too
great. People are dying. It doesn't matter whether we're entitled to it
or not. We must have it. 
PICARD: Let him go. 
T'JON: You will take us there now, or give us a shuttle. But we must
have the medicine. If you refuse, this person will die. 
PICARD: I will not be coerced. 
T'JON: I will do it. I will kill him. 

[The Last Outpost]

(The Ferengis are watching them. Little crouching
men with whips in their hands) 
RIKER: Who are you? 
(The Ferengi let fly energy bolts from their whips, knocking the three
men out. Actually, it takes two jolts to knock out Riker)

