PULASKI PICARD RIKER DATA TROI

[Pulaski's office]

PICARD: Anything? 
PULASKI: Not yet. 
PICARD: What can I do? 
PULASKI: You can get out of my hair. 
PICARD: Aye aye, Doctor.

[Sickbay]

(A male nurse is scanning Riker to check the
progress of the infection) 
RIKER: This bug is persistent, I'll admit that. But I'm not worried. We
Rikers are ornery, too. As a matter of fact, my great grandfather once
got bit by a rattlesnake. After three days of intense pain, the snake
died. 
TROI: You're a very entertaining patient. 
RIKER: I try. 
TROI: Yes. you're making quite an effort to be cheerful. 
RIKER: You, of all people, should know. 
TROI: You feel what anyone in your position would feel. 
RIKER: As the First Officer on this ship, I have to set an example. 
TROI: Even now? 
RIKER: Now more than ever. Deanna, facing death is the ultimate test of
character. I don't want to die, but if I have to, I'd like to do it
with a little pride. 
TROI: And a lot of impudence. 
RIKER: You bet. Dying is bad enough but, to lose my sense of humour?
Forget it. 
TROI: Imzadi. 
RIKER: I haven't given up yet. 
(But his eyes close and the machine beeps a warning as his indicators
drop into the red. Pulaski runs in) 
PULASKI: It's spread to the spinal column. It's weakening his autonomic
nervous system. Judging by its present rate of growth and its
infiltration pattern, the infection will spread to the brain within an
hour.

Medical log, Stardate 42976.3. I can't keep the
alien infection from spreading to Commander Riker's brain. Once there,
it will kill him by dampening neural impulses. The only way I can keep
him alive is to force the neurons to stay active by stimulating them
directly with electrical impulses.

[Sickbay]

(Riker has been stripped of his uniform and covered
with a blanket. Above and around his head is a framework with what look
like five giant hypodermic needles pointing towards his head. Troi
winces as each goes in) 
PULASKI: Let's proceed. 
(The needles extend themselves down into Riker's brain) 
PULASKI: Good. Stand by with five milligrams of tricordrazine in case
of seizure. Here goes. 
(Riker's eyelids flutter, and we go off into his 'memories' as
triggered by the treatment, and the need to produce a very cheap
episode)

[The Last Outpost]

RIKER: (alone in a hostile land) Tasha? Data?
Geordi? Worf? Anybody?

[Sickbay]

PULASKI: We've stimulated random wave activity, but
the patterns are dangerously erratic. 
TROI: Hang on, Will. Hang on. 
PULASKI: The wave patterns are still too irregular. 
TROI: Why won't they stabilise? 
PULASKI: Wait. I've found the right amplitude. There. The patterns are
steadier. 
TROI: Is the stimulation preventing the infection from taking hold? 
PULASKI: For now. The vertex waves indicate a K-complex corresponding
to an REM state. 
TROI: He's dreaming.

[Encounter at Farpoint- Holodeck]

RIKER: Hello! 
(He finds Data whistling 'Pop goes the Weasel', and finishes the tune
for him) 
DATA: Marvellous. How easily humans do that. I still need much
practice. 
RIKER: There are some puzzles down on the planet that the Captain wants
answered. He suggested that I take you with me on the away team I'll be
leading. 
DATA: I shall endeavour to function adequately, sir. 
RIKER: Yes. When the captain suggested you, I looked up your record. 
DATA: Yes, sir. A wise procedure, sir, always. 
RIKER: Then your rank of Lieutenant Commander is honorary? 
DATA: No, sir. Starfleet class of '78. Honours in probability mechanics
and exobiology. 
RIKER: But your files they say you're a 
DATA: Machine? Correct, sir. Does that trouble you? 
RIKER: To be honest, yes, a little. 
DATA: Understood, sir. Prejudice is very human. 
RIKER: Now that does trouble me. Do you consider yourself superior to
us? 
DATA: I am superior, sir, in many ways. But I would gladly give it up
to be human. 
RIKER: Nice to meet you, Pinocchio. A joke. 
DATA: Ah! Intriguing. 
RIKER: You're going to be an interesting companion, Mister Data.

