RIKER KLAG PICARD TROI PULASKI T'JON QUINN KARGAN
head stomach remains poisonous infection looks signs stimulate areas

[A Matter of Honour - Pagh Bridge]

I know I can count on every Klingon warrior in this
crew to serve and die in that battle. So I ask you again, Commander
Riker. Where are your loyalties? 
RIKER: I have been assigned to serve this ship and to obey your orders.
And I will do exactly that. 
KARGAN: Will you take an oath to that effect? 
RIKER: I just did. 
KLAG: (in Klingon) Do not believe him! He lies! 
KARGAN: (in Klingon) Speak in their language. This is your Second
Officer, Lieutenant Klag. 
RIKER: Is there something you wanted to say to me, Lieutenant? 
KLAG: Yes sir. I do not believe you. 
RIKER: Then I take it you challenge my authority over you. 
KLAG: Correct. 
RIKER: And your position on this, Captain? 
KARGAN: I would say it your first command decision. 
(Riker looks around and thumps Klag in the stomach before throwing him
on the floor, then kicking him down before he can get up again, and
finally ramming his head into a computer panel. Lots of sparks. Kargan
laughs)

[Conspiracy - Quinn's quarters]

RIKER: Ready for your tour, Admiral? 
QUINN: Quite ready, Commander. 
RIKER: What's in the case? 
QUINN: Actually, I brought it for Doctor Crusher. But perhaps you would
like you to see it first? 
RIKER: What is it? 
QUINN: A form of life. It was discovered accidentally by a survey team
on an uncharted planet. 
RIKER: Why haven't we heard anything about that? 
QUINN: Oh, you'll be hearing about it shortly, but first there remains
much scientific study to be done. After all, it is a superior form of
life. 
RIKER: Superior? 
QUINN: Totally. Come, have a look. 
RIKER: I think I'll summon my Science Officer. 
(Quinn grabs his arm with a surprising amount of strength) 
QUINN: It won't like your Science Officer. It does like you! Vitamins.
They do wonders for the body. 
(There's a very one-sided fight - Quinn easily throws Riker around the
room)
RIKER: Riker to Security. Guest quarters seventeen. Emergency. 
(Quinn knocks Riker out cold)

[Skin of Evil]

[Sickbay]

PULASKI: We've reduced the growth rate even
further, but not enough. And his vital signs are deteriorating. 
TROI: But we've isolated the specific areas to stimulate. The feelings
were primal. Survival emotions. 
PULASKI: They must be producing a type of endorphin that's poisonous to
the organisms. 
TROI: Can't you intensify that emotion? 
PULASKI: I can refocus the impulse pattern even tighter. But I don't
know if he can withstand it. He's extremely weak. 
TROI: Do we have a choice? 
PULASKI: No. If we don't neutralise the infection, within half an hour
he'll be dead.

Medical log, supplemental. Commander Riker's
condition is still critical. I've discovered a way to reverse the
infection's growth rate, but I may be too late. 
[Sickbay]

TROI: He's getting weaker, isn't he? 
PULASKI: Respiration shallow, heartbeat extremely irregular, but we
can't delay any longer.

[Symbiosis - Observation lounge]

(T'Jon uses his electric power on Riker) 
T'JON: You will take us to our planet and leave us there with our
medicine or this person dies. Don't you see I have no choice? We were
sent to bring the felicium back. The suffering on my planet is too
great. People are dying. It doesn't matter whether we're entitled to it
or not. We must have it. 
PICARD: Let him go. 
T'JON: You will take us there now, or give us a shuttle. But we must
have the medicine. If you refuse, this person will die. 
PICARD: I will not be coerced. 
T'JON: I will do it. I will kill him. 

