RIKER WORF PICARD SHELIAK CRUSHER DATA

[Bridge]

WORF: Origin point of the message confirmed, sir.
It is from the Shelia star system. 
RIKER: The Sheliak have not attempted to communicate with the
Federation for a hundred and eleven years. Why are they doing it now? 
PICARD: On screen. 
(Not a person, but a computer record of a treaty and it's translation) 
SHELIAK [OC]:: Federation creatures, there are humans on the fifth
planet of Tau Cygna. This planet was ceded to the Corporate in section
one hundred and thirty-three, paragraph seventy seven of the Treaty of
Armens. We will begin
settlement of this world in four days. Remove the humans. 
PICARD: What the devil? 
SHELIAK [OC]: Federation creatures, there are humans on the fifth
planet 
PICARD: Cancel message. 
RIKER: Tau Cygna Five is in the de Laure Belt. Heavy concentrations of
hyperonic radiation. 
PICARD: Humans can't survive in that environment. Exposure to hyperonic
radiation is fatal. 
RIKER: Then the Sheliak are asking us to chase ghosts. 
PICARD: No, Number One. The Sheliak haven't broken a century of silence
to send us after phantoms. An investigation is in order. Set course for
Tau Cygna Five. 
(In orbit of the orange-brown planet) 
WORF: Captain, human life form readings from the planet. 
RIKER: So the Sheliak weren't hallucinating. 
PICARD: Numbers? 
WORF: Impossible to get an accurate reading. High levels of radiation
are disrupting our sensors. 
DATA: Hyperonic radiation also interferes with ship's transporters.
They are now inoperable. 
WORF: So are the ship's phasers. 
RIKER: How can humans survive down there? 
CRUSHER: They must have found a way to adapt. Milan's work with
radiation sensitivity suggests it is possible. Perhaps with extensive
viral therapy. 
PICARD: Well, whoever they are, and however they survived, we've got to
get them off the planet. 
RIKER: By treaty, that world still belongs to the Sheliak. 
PICARD: Who are within their rights to demand the removal of these
trespassers. 
RIKER: And if we don't remove them, the Sheliak will. Forcefully. 
CRUSHER: How forcefully? 
RIKER: The Sheliak consider humans a lower life form. They would have
no compunctions about exterminating the intruders. 
PICARD: Mister Data, as you are unaffected by hyperonic radiation, I'd
like you to go to the planet via shuttlecraft and commence evacuation
procedures. 
DATA: Aye, sir. 
PICARD: Number One, any speculation on what we might find down there? 
RIKER: My guess would be a lone survey ship. Maybe a dozen or so
survivors.

