TROI LAFORGE WORF PICARD RIKER HARITATH SHELIAK GOSHEVEN DATA ARDRIAN KENTOR

[Ard'rian's home]

KENTOR: And once the Federation resettles us, we'll
be left alone? 
DATA: If you so desire. 
HARITATH: We do. We like to do things on our own. 
DATA: The Federation will offer as little or as much help as you
dictate. 
ARD'RIAN: Kentor, are you with us? 
KENTOR: Yes. The question is, how do we convince Gosheven? 
HARITATH: Why do we need to? 
KENTOR: Because he's respected. Most people will do what he says. 
ARD'RIAN: They respect you, too. If you take a stand, they'll fall in
line. 
KENTOR: I don't know. Gosheven's got a lot of supporters. 
GOSHEVEN: Don't forget that, Kentor. I'm disappointed. I thought we'd
settled this. 
DATA: Apparently, that is not correct. 
GOSHEVEN: Still stirring up trouble? 
ARD'RIAN: Since when is talk trouble? 
GOSHEVEN: It's over. Don't you get it? You had your say. You lost. 
DATA: I appear to be reversing that defeat. 
GOSHEVEN: No, you're not. You're just stubborn. Well, let me tell you
something. 
(Gosheven uses an electric prod on Data. He falls over) 
GOSHEVEN: So am I. 
ARD'RIAN: Damn you, Gosheven. 
HARITATH: You killed him? 
GOSHEVEN: I've killed no one. I merely shut down a machine. That's it,
everyone. It's time to go home. You'll see that I'm right.

[Sheliak ship]

(Picard and Troi beam aboard. It's mostly dark,
just a few lights here and there) 
SHELIAK: Advance and speak. 
PICARD: Director, we will comply with your request to remove the colony
from Tau Cygna Five, but we need time. 
SHELIAK: The given time has elapsed. We carry the membership and we
will proceed with their debarkation. 
TROI: The temporary presence of these humans should not interfere with
your plans. 
SHELIAK: Unacceptable. You must remove the creatures. 
PICARD: I'm trying, but the needed ship will not be available for three
weeks. 
SHELIAK: Then you are in violation. 
PICARD: I have admitted that. I am only asking for a little
flexibility. 
SHELIAK: Section five hundred and one, paragraph seven hundred and
sixteen, subparagraph five. Unwanted lifeforms inhabiting H class
worlds may be removed at the discretion of the Sheliak Corporate. 
PICARD: We will remove them, but you must grant us the time we require.

SHELIAK: You need time, Picard of the Enterprise? We will save you
time. We will eradicate the human infestation. 
PICARD: They are not vermin. They are citizens of the Federation. I
will not permit this outrage! 
SHELIAK: Intelligent converse is impossible. You do not discuss, you
gibber. 
PICARD: Between intelligent species of good will 
[Bridge]

(Picard and Troi are zapped back onto the Bridge in
mid sentence) 
RIKER: I take it the Sheliak just hung up on us again.

[Ard'rian's home]

(Data suddenly sits up) 
ARD'RIAN: I was afraid your neural pathways were scrambled beyond
repair. 
DATA: I am equipped with diagnostic circuits and am able to correct
many malfunctions. 
ARD'RIAN: I'm not surprised at Gosheven's behaviour. But Kentor and the
others, they said they were with us. I guess words don't mean very
much. 
DATA: Perhaps that is a part of our difficulty. Words are all we have
been using. Humans seem to take much stronger notice of actions. I
require a phaser. 
ARD'RIAN: What's a phaser? 
DATA: A type of weapon. Unfortunately it does not function in the
presence of hyperonic radiation. I will have to be innovative.

[Shuttlecraft]

(Data removes a small circuit board from his right
forearm) 
DATA: Hyperonic radiation randomises phaser beams. But I believe I can
improvise a servocircuit which will compensate by continuously
recollimating the output. 
ARD'RIAN: You're using your own neural subprocessors to build a smarter
phaser. 
DATA: Essentially correct. Get word to Gosheven. Tell him I am coming
to the pumping station. Tell him I am going to destroy the aqueduct. 
ARD'RIAN: He'll try to stop you. 
DATA: I sincerely hope so.

[Bridge]

PICARD: Go to yellow alert. Shields up. 
WORF: Aye, sir. 
PICARD: Mister Riker, put us nose to nose with the Sheliak ship. Any
move she makes, match it. 
RIKER: Aye, sir. 
PICARD: Mister Worf, hailing frequency. 
WORF: Open. They are not responding. 
PICARD: They don't have to answer. They just have to listen. Sheliak
vessel, you will have to get past me to get at the colony on Tau Cygna
Five. 
WORF: No response. 
PICARD: Close channel. And get me that treaty. They've been beating us
over the head with it for three days. Let's see if we can't find
something in it that we can turn to our own advantage. 
[Main square]

(The elders are on a raised platform to the side,
and four security guards are in front of the pool. Data fires at them) 
DATA: Stop. That was the stun setting. This is not. 
(There's a big bang, then energy is seen racing up the pipeline to the
mountain) 
DATA: I can reduce this pumping station to a pile of debris, but I
trust my point is clear. I am one android with a single weapon. There
are hundreds of Sheliak on the way and their weapons are far more
powerful. They may not offer you a target. They can obliterate you from
orbit. You will die never having seen the faces of your killers. The
choice is yours. 
KENTOR: There are other places, other challenges. 
(The security guards recover from their stuns) 
GOSHEVEN: I really was willing to stay here and die for this. 
DATA: I know that. This is just a thing, and things can be replaced.
Lives cannot. 
[Bridge]

(The senior crew are working through the treaty,
page by page) 
WORF: This is hopeless. Fighting would be preferable. 
(Picard stops it at paragraph 1290 Third Party Arbitration Clause) 
PICARD: That's it. 
TROI: I don't follow you, sir. 
PICARD: Mister Worf, get me the Sheliak. 
WORF: Yes, sir. Coming through, sir. 
PICARD: Pursuant to paragraph one thousand two hundred and ninety, I
hereby formally request third party arbitration of our dispute. 
SHELIAK [on viewscreen]: You have the right. 
PICARD: Furthermore, pursuant to subsection D three, I name the
Grisellas to arbitrate. 
SHELIAK [on viewscreen]: Grisellas? 
PICARD: Unfortunately, they are currently in their hibernation cycle,
However, they will awaken in six months, at which time we can get this
matter settled. Now, do you want to wait or give me my three weeks? 
SHELIAK [on viewscreen]: Absurd. We carry the membership. We can brook
no delay. 
PICARD: Then I declare the treaty in abeyance, 
SHELIAK [on viewscreen]: Wait! Negotiation is permiss 
(Picard has him cut off in mid word) 
RIKER: You enjoyed that. 
PICARD: You're damned right. 
WORF: Captain, they are hailing us. 
(one, two, three, four, make him wait outside the door. Picard inspects
the ship's plaque for dust) 
WORF: Sir? 
(Five, six, seven, eight, does the beggar good to wait) 
PICARD: On screen. 
SHELIAK [on viewscreen]: You may have your three weeks, Picard of the
Enterprise. 
PICARD: Thank you. 
(The Sheliak ship turns around. La Forge enters) 
LAFORGE: Captain, we can do it. We can modify the transporters. 
PICARD: Excellent. 
LAFORGE: It'll take fifteen years, and a research team of a hundred. 
PICARD: Mister La Forge, I believe we will postpone. 
LAFORGE: Yes, sir.

