RIKER ARD'RIAN DATA [OC] PICARD GOSHEVEN DATA
stubborn training don people sacrifice rock ninety child profuse

[Main square]

(It is evening) 
GOSHEVEN: You see this? Do you have any idea what it is, or what it
means? 
DATA: It is water. A substance composed of two atoms of hydrogen 
GOSHEVEN: It's not water. It's blood and it's sweat. It's the result of
a ninety years of combined effort. This isn't a town. It's a monument
to every man, woman, and child who's lived and died on Tau Cygna Five. 
ARD'RIAN: Gosheven, you're talking nonsense. 
GOSHEVEN: Am I? My grandfather is buried on that mountain. He died in a
rock slide surveying the route for this aqueduct. This colony exists
because of his sacrifice, and the sacrifice of thousands of others. No,
we're not leaving. 
DATA: The Sheliak will not accept humans on their planet, And they will
not hesitate to use force to remove you. 
GOSHEVEN: We will not be bullied off our land. Not by you, and not by
the Sheliak. 
(Gosheven walks away) 
ARD'RIAN: Stubborn and irrational. Now what do we do? 
DATA: Are his sentiments typical of the colonists? 
ARD'RIAN: I hope not. 
DATA: If I can convince enough people of the necessity of leaving 
ARD'RIAN: Don't you mean, if we can convince? 
[Ready room]

PICARD: Come. 
RIKER: Yes, sir? 
PICARD: Three weeks. Starfleet is profuse in their apologies, but it
will still be three weeks until the arrival of a colony transport ship
equipped with dedicated personnel shuttles. 
RIKER: We can't wait three weeks. 
PICARD: Then the Sheliak must agree to extend our deadline. They plan
to settle Tau Cygna Five two days from now. 
RIKER: One of their ships must already be en route. 
PICARD: We're going to intercept that ship. 
RIKER: The Sheliak may interpret that as a hostile act. 
PICARD: A risk we have to take.

[Observation lounge]

RIKER: The Enterprise is going to try to intercept
the Sheliak colony ship. Your job well, you know what your job is. 
DATA [OC]: Commander. 
[Main square]

DATA: In human parlance, I do not believe I can get
the job done. My training has prepared me for starship command duties.
As a cultural contact I am proving to be 
