TROI LAFORGE WORF RIKER [OC] ALL WESLEY HARITATH SHELIAK RIKER SHELIAK [on viewscreen] PICARD DATA GOSHEVEN ARD'RIAN KENTOR
gathering splendid neural means alive inhabiting does smarith died

[Transporter room]

(another test object comes back almost intact, but
if it were a person, they'd still be dead. Picard enters) 
PICARD: Now, are we progressing, Mister La Forge? 
LAFORGE: About like you'd expect, sir. 
PICARD: Splendid. Splendid. Carry on. 
(Picard leaves) 
WESLEY: He wants the impossible. 
LAFORGE: That's the short definition of Captain.

[Main square]

(A crowd is gathering under the street lights) 
GOSHEVEN: You've all heard of the android Starfleet sent here, and
you've been discussing why he's come.
I've called this meeting to replace misinformation with cold, hard
fact. 
DATA: I wish to speak. 
GOSHEVEN: No. Leave now. 
DATA: Do you consider your position so weak that it cannot withstand
debate? 
HARITATH: Let him talk. 
DATA: You know of the Sheliak threat. Starfleet wishes to evacuate you
for your own protection. Yet Gosheven has decided otherwise. That is
his right, And I will not waste time trying to reverse that decision. I
admire your conviction in the face of certain defeat. Though doomed,
your effort will be valiant. And when you die, you will die for land
and honour. Your children will understand that they are dying for a
worthy cause. Long after the battle is over, their courage will be
remembered and extolled. 
ARD'RIAN: Remembered by who? 
DATA: Yes, that is true. There will be no one left alive to remember. 
GOSHEVEN: (applauding) A valiant try, android, but what a low opinion
you must have of us. 
DATA: I was simply attempting to describe your inevitable destruction
in a manner that would have an emotional effect. 
HARITATH: And he describes it pretty damned well. 
GOSHEVEN: Are you ready to follow this machine? Give up without a
fight? He says we're going to lose, but I think that's just his
cowardice talking! 
KENTOR: What if he's right and you're wrong? Shouldn't we consider that
possibility? 
GOSHEVEN: This colony exists because generations gave their lives for
it. Many people died before we found a way to adapt to the radiation.
And many more died bringing water to the desert. My grandfather 
ARD'RIAN: Is buried on that mountain. Well, who'll be left to bury you?

GOSHEVEN: Have you considered what this evacuation means? Everything we
have, we abandon. Everything that we have
built turns into dust. Everything that we have accomplished means
nothing. Well, I say no. You elected me your leader. Follow me now. I
don't think our chances are as hopeless as he says. And I'm willing to
stake our lives on it. Any objections? Good, because here we stand. 
ALL: Aye, We stand with you. 
(The men slap Gosheven on the back, the women look worried) 
DATA: Then here you die. 
(after the crowd has broken up) 
HARITATH: Mister Data, I just want you to know that Gosheven doesn't
speak for all of us. I see no reason to die needlessly. 
DATA: And you? 
KENTOR: I'm not sure. Gosheven's done well for us, but I'd like to hear
more of what you have to say. 
HARITATH: There are many others that feel the same way but they're very
uneasy about confronting Gosheven. 
ARD'RIAN: Get them together and we'll meet at my house.

[Ready room]

TROI: In our dealings with other non-humanoid races
there has been some point of reference. Not so with the Sheliak. 
PICARD: But we must have something in common. We communicate. 
TROI: Barely. They have learned several Federation languages, but
theirs continues to elude us. 
PICARD: Telepaths? 
TROI: Attempted and failed. Actually, the fact that any alien race
communicates with another is quite remarkable. We are stranded on a
planet. We have no language in common, but I want to teach you mine.
(she hold up his cup of tea) S'smarith. What did I just say? 
PICARD: Cup? Glass? 
TROI: Are you sure? I may have meant liquid, clear, brown, hot. We
conceptualise the universe in relatively the same way. 
PICARD: Point taken. 
TROI: In your talks, you must be extremely accurate. The treaty is five
hundred thousand words. The length was to accommodate the Sheliak. They
consider our language irrational, and demanded this level of complexity
to avoid any future misunderstandings. 
RIKER [OC]: Captain, we have the vessel carrying the Sheliak colonists
on visual. 
PICARD: On my way. So, it begins.

[Bridge]

PICARD: Hailing frequencies. 
WORF: Open. 
PICARD: This is Captain Jean-Luc Picard of the Starship Enterprise. 
SHELIAK [on viewscreen]: Your purpose, Enterprise? 
PICARD: We desire face-to-face negotiation to settle the crisis on Tau
Cygna Five. 
SHELIAK [on viewscreen]: Meaningless. 
PICARD: We are entitled to consultation under paragraph six hundred and
fifty three subparagraph nine. 
SHELIAK [on viewscreen]: Granted. 
(Transmission ends) 
RIKER: Was that an invitation? 
PICARD: I am taking it as such. Counsellor. You have the Bridge, Number
One. 
RIKER: Helm, maintain relative position. Mister Worf, tell transporter
room two to stand by. 
WORF: Aye, sir.

[Ard'rian's home]

KENTOR: And once the Federation resettles us, we'll
be left alone? 
DATA: If you so desire. 
HARITATH: We do. We like to do things on our own. 
DATA: The Federation will offer as little or as much help as you
dictate. 
ARD'RIAN: Kentor, are you with us? 
KENTOR: Yes. The question is, how do we convince Gosheven? 
HARITATH: Why do we need to? 
KENTOR: Because he's respected. Most people will do what he says. 
ARD'RIAN: They respect you, too. If you take a stand, they'll fall in
line. 
KENTOR: I don't know. Gosheven's got a lot of supporters. 
GOSHEVEN: Don't forget that, Kentor. I'm disappointed. I thought we'd
settled this. 
DATA: Apparently, that is not correct. 
GOSHEVEN: Still stirring up trouble? 
ARD'RIAN: Since when is talk trouble? 
GOSHEVEN: It's over. Don't you get it? You had your say. You lost. 
DATA: I appear to be reversing that defeat. 
GOSHEVEN: No, you're not. You're just stubborn. Well, let me tell you
something. 
(Gosheven uses an electric prod on Data. He falls over) 
GOSHEVEN: So am I. 
ARD'RIAN: Damn you, Gosheven. 
HARITATH: You killed him? 
GOSHEVEN: I've killed no one. I merely shut down a machine. That's it,
everyone. It's time to go home. You'll see that I'm right.

[Sheliak ship]

(Picard and Troi beam aboard. It's mostly dark,
just a few lights here and there) 
SHELIAK: Advance and speak. 
PICARD: Director, we will comply with your request to remove the colony
from Tau Cygna Five, but we need time. 
SHELIAK: The given time has elapsed. We carry the membership and we
will proceed with their debarkation. 
TROI: The temporary presence of these humans should not interfere with
your plans. 
SHELIAK: Unacceptable. You must remove the creatures. 
PICARD: I'm trying, but the needed ship will not be available for three
weeks. 
SHELIAK: Then you are in violation. 
PICARD: I have admitted that. I am only asking for a little
flexibility. 
SHELIAK: Section five hundred and one, paragraph seven hundred and
sixteen, subparagraph five. Unwanted lifeforms inhabiting H class
worlds may be removed at the discretion of the Sheliak Corporate. 
PICARD: We will remove them, but you must grant us the time we require.

SHELIAK: You need time, Picard of the Enterprise? We will save you
time. We will eradicate the human infestation. 
PICARD: They are not vermin. They are citizens of the Federation. I
will not permit this outrage! 
SHELIAK: Intelligent converse is impossible. You do not discuss, you
gibber. 
PICARD: Between intelligent species of good will 
[Bridge]

(Picard and Troi are zapped back onto the Bridge in
mid sentence) 
RIKER: I take it the Sheliak just hung up on us again.

[Ard'rian's home]

(Data suddenly sits up) 
ARD'RIAN: I was afraid your neural pathways were scrambled beyond
repair. 
DATA: I am equipped with diagnostic circuits and am able to correct
many malfunctions. 
ARD'RIAN: I'm not surprised at Gosheven's behaviour. But Kentor and the
others, they said they were with us. I guess words don't mean very
much. 
DATA: Perhaps that is a part of our difficulty. Words are all we have
been using. Humans seem to take much stronger notice of actions. I
require a phaser. 
ARD'RIAN: What's a phaser? 
DATA: A type of weapon. Unfortunately it does not function in the
presence of hyperonic radiation. I will have to be innovative.

