RIKER LAFORGE ARDRIAN PICARD WESLEY DATA

[Main square]

DATA: In the last three hours and eight minutes, I
have spoken to fifty six colonists. Ten of those refused to believe a
threat exists. Twenty two favour staying and fighting the Sheliak.
Sixteen prefer negotiation or 
[Observation lounge]

DATA [OC]: Some form of passive resistance. Only
eight were willing to consider evacuation. And of those eight 
RIKER: Data, I can't help you. I don't know these people. I haven't
talked to them. You have. Use that fancy 
[Main square]

RIKER [OC]: Positronic brain of yours and carry out
your mission. 
DATA: Sir, if I do not succeed, how violent is the Sheliak reaction
likely to be? 
[Observation lounge]

RIKER: The treaty is the only thing that prevented
them from eradicating the colony the moment they discovered it.

[Main square]

DATA: Ah. 
RIKER [OC]: Ah is right, Data. 
[Observation lounge]

RIKER: The lives of fifteen thousand people are
riding on you. 
[Main square]

RIKER [OC]: You'd better get innovative. Riker out.

ARD'RIAN: Data? We're having an effect. So many people are asking
questions about the Sheliak that Gosheven has called a public meeting. 
DATA: Is there any indication that Gosheven has changed his position? 
ARD'RIAN: No. But a meeting will give you the chance to present your
recommendations. 
DATA: So far, my attempts at persuasion have been ineffective. 
(Ard'rian kisses him full on the lips) 
DATA: Why did you do that? 
ARD'RIAN: You appeared to need it. 
DATA: Among humans, a kiss usually serves to seal a friendship, or
indicate support, attraction, affection.
In this context, I must assume that your intention was to express
support. 
ARD'RIAN: You don't really understand human behaviour, do you? 
DATA: That is something of an understatement. 
ARD'RIAN: Sometimes I don't either. androids are a lot more rational. 
DATA: Thus far, that quality has not helped me to accomplish my
mission. 
ARD'RIAN: A rational argument isn't always enough. Maybe to be more
persuasive, you need to use a little reverse psychology. 
DATA: Elicit a desired behaviour by advocating its opposite. That
implies deception, does it not? 
ARD'RIAN: A little. But if it helps us get our point across. 
DATA: Perhaps this is a situation where excessive honesty can be
detrimental.

[Transporter room]

(another test object comes back almost intact, but
if it were a person, they'd still be dead. Picard enters) 
PICARD: Now, are we progressing, Mister La Forge? 
LAFORGE: About like you'd expect, sir. 
PICARD: Splendid. Splendid. Carry on. 
(Picard leaves) 
WESLEY: He wants the impossible. 
LAFORGE: That's the short definition of Captain.

