RIKER WORF PICARD LAFORGE [OC] TROI STUBBS WESLEY CRUSHER DATA
duty malfunction actions resist laid forces answer bona explodes

[Shuttlebay]

STUBBS: The Egg that Stubbs laid. 
WESLEY: No one will say that. 
STUBBS: Nobody will say anything at all, Wesley. We will not even be
mentioned. I could live with failure. Well, maybe not. But never even
to try. To miss your one chance at bat. Do you know baseball? 
WESLEY: Yes, my father taught it to me when I was young. 
STUBBS: Once, centuries ago, it was the beloved national pastime of the
Americas, Wesley. Abandoned by a society that prized fast food and
faster games. Lost to impatience. But I have seen the great players
make the great plays. 
WESLEY: Do you recreate them on a holodeck? 
STUBBS: No. In here. (his head) With the knowledge of statistics, runs,
hits and errors, times at bat, box scores. Men like us do not need
holodecks, Wesley. I have played seasons in my mind. It was my reward
to myself for patience. Knowing my turn would come. Call your shot.
Point to a star. One great blast and the crowd rises. A brand new era
in astrophysics. Postponed one hundred and ninety six years on account
of rain. 
[Laboratory]

(Wesley is scanning his traps for the missing
nanites. One seems to come up positive when Doctor Crusher enters) 
CRUSHER: We have to talk. You really look like you could use some rest,
Wesley. 
WESLEY: I know. It's okay. Really. 
CRUSHER: No, it's not okay. Really. 
WESLEY: Look, mom, I'm just checking some traps that I set to see if I
can find out what's happening to the Enterprise. 
CRUSHER: On someone's orders? 
WESLEY: We're running out of time for Doctor Stubbs. 
CRUSHER: You can't put everything on your shoulders, Wesley. Even when
you're off duty, you're on duty. 
WESLEY: Mom, you don't understand. 
CRUSHER: You are a seventeen year old boy. 
WESLEY: I'm also an acting officer and I have responsibilities. 
CRUSHER: I'm beginning to think maybe you've taken on too many
responsibilities. 
WESLEY: Look, I have done everything that everyone has asked of me and
more. And how can you know? You haven't even been here. 
CRUSHER: I'm here now, Wesley. Come on, I'll help you. What are you
looking for? Wesley? 
WESLEY: I think I've made a horrible mistake. 

[Observation lounge]

(Beverly is giving the presentation) 
CRUSHER: Nanites. Tiny machines built from the atom up. Designed to
have exposure only to the inside of nucleii during
cellular surgeries. Until then, they are kept tightly confined in a
non-functioning state. 
DATA: These are not ordinary nanites. 
CRUSHER: No, they have evolved. 
STUBBS: Evolved? How does a machine evolve? 
WESLEY: It's true. I am responsible for this. I allowed two of the
nanites to interact for a school project. I wanted to increase their
capabilities. And they escaped. 
PICARD: School project? Just how far have these things evolved? 
WESLEY: Well, this is a sample of linear memory crystal from our
computer core. 
(The screen shows a scene out of Pacman) 
RIKER: It's like candy to them. 
CRUSHER: As you can see, they're able to mechanically replicate
themselves. 
DATA: It is conceivable that with each new generation they enhance
their own design. The rate of evolution would be extraordinary. 
PICARD: How many generations are we dealing with here? 
DATA: Engineering, display computer core processor four five one,
element zero two nine nine. 
DATA: Increase magnification, factor one thousand. 
PICARD: Can it be possible they know what they're doing? 
RIKER: Why would they attack us? 
STUBBS: Why does a mosquito bite your ear? and who cares? The answer is
simple. Call an exterminator. 
CRUSHER: Doctor Stubbs, these nanites are now working with a new
collective intelligence. Operating together. Teaching each other
skills. 
STUBBS: Oh really. I'm sorry but this is nonsense. You can't have a
civilisation of computer chips. They're made in a plant in Dakar,
Senegal. I've watched the construction. 
CRUSHER: Then how do you explain what we've seen here? 
STUBBS: It's no more mysterious than watching a strain of the Leutscher
virus reproduce itself. And that at least is a bona fide lifeform. How
many disease germs and viruses have you destroyed in your time, Doctor
Crusher? 
PICARD: Doctor Stubbs, we cannot exterminate something that may or may
not be intelligent. 
STUBBS: My good Captain. 
PICARD: There's still time. Ensign, will you work with mister Data to
try to remove them safely. If things get worse, we'll use stronger
measures.

[Computer core]

STUBBS: Gentlemen. I need a computer that is one
hundred percent in less than eight hours, and we still have core
reconstruction to consider. 
WESLEY: We're trying low gamma bursts. We think it might slow down
their productivity. 
STUBBS: Have you considered a high level charge? 
DATA: High level gamma radiation would kill them, Doctor. 
STUBBS: I know. 
(So he fires something at a computer wall panel)

[Ready room]

PICARD: I can't get the story of Gulliver out of my
head. Overpowered by Lilliputians. How long do we have to wait? 
RIKER: We can continue to bypass the part of the computer that's
affected, but if the nanites are spreading through the whole the ship. 
PICARD: Do you smell a change? What? (coughs) 
[Bridge]

(The Bridge is filling with opaque gas) 
PICARD: Picard to La Forge. We have an environmental system malfunction
on the Bridge. Acknowledge. 
LAFORGE [OC]: Aye, sir. 
RIKER: Nitrogen oxide. Toxic levels.
LAFORGE [OC]: Working on it, Captain. 
(The air clears) 
RIKER: I've switched to manual control of the air handling system. 
(The lights go out, a panel explodes. Stubbs, Worf and Data enter) 

PICARD: Mister Worf, report. 
WORF: He entered a computer access room and sterilised one of the
processors with gamma radiation. 
DATA: The nanites in the upper core are all dead, Captain. 
STUBBS: You have no choice now. It is a matter of survival. 
PICARD: Doctor Stubbs, if you were a member of my crew, sir, I would 
STUBBS: But I am not a member of your crew, sir. I am a representative
of the highest command of the Federation, which has directed you to
perform my experiment. 
PICARD: If any man, woman or child on this ship is harmed as a result
of your experiment, I will have your head before the highest command in
the Federation. 
STUBBS: Good Lord, you are talking about machines with a screw loose.
Simply turn them off and be done with them. 
DATA: Doctor Stubbs, your own actions have provided evidence to the
contrary. When you destroyed the nanites in the core, they responded by
interfering with our life support systems. It is difficult to accept
these as random actions by machines with loose screws. In effect, you
may have proven that the nanites do have a collective intelligence. 
WORF: Captain, the ship is at risk. Extermination may be our only
alternative. 
STUBBS: A good point. 
PICARD: Lieutenant Worf, I want Doctor Stubbs confined to his quarters
until further notice. 
(Stubbs leaves with a guard, and the light come back) 
PICARD: Mister Data, can you find me some way to communicate with these
things? 
DATA: With intelligence, there is the capability of language, but it
will depend on how far their evolution has brought them. We could
modify the circuitry in the universal translator to make it capable of
communications with them. 
PICARD: Proceed.

[Stubbs' quarters]

TROI: May I come in? 
STUBBS: You just can't resist, can you, Counsellor? 
TROI: I only want to help. 
STUBBS: Yes, yes. To break the shell. To get in touch with my true
feelings. 
TROI: I'm only worried about your state of mind, Doctor. 
STUBBS: All right, Counsellor, what is it that has you so worried? 
TROI: Your single-mindedness, your need to have this experiment work. 
STUBBS: But it will. Picard has no choice now. He must defend the
Enterprise. Counsellor, when this is all over, I will show you New
Manhattan on Beth Delta One as you've never seen it, and we will laugh
over glasses of champagne. 
TROI: Your self portrait is so practiced, so polished. 
STUBBS: Yes, isn't it, though? 
TROI: It is stretched so tight the tension fills this room. And if you
finally fail, I fear it will snap. 
STUBBS: A good try, Counsellor. But sometimes when you reach beneath a
man's self portrait, as you so eloquently put it, deep down inside what
you find is nothing at all. 
(Troi leaves and Stubbs returns to his mental reconstruction of a 1951
baseball game) 
STUBBS: Lockman on first, Dark on second. Thompson at the plate Branca
on the mound. 
(Electric shorts blank out the various screens and monitors. Then a
bolt of energy leaps from the replicator into Stubbs like a lightening
hit. The guard outside hears his screams and forces the doors. Stubbs
collapses into his arms) 
[Sickbay]

CRUSHER: He's coming around. 
PICARD: I cannot believe this was not an arbitrary attack. 
CRUSHER: Has Data made any progress in contacting them? 
STUBBS: Picard. You must protect me. Kill them! 
(The lights flicker and the ship trembles) 
