TROI LAFORGE WORF PICARD RIKER STUBBS WESLEY COMPUTER CREWMAN NURSE CRUSHER DATA

[Sickbay]

(It's busy. They've even got Guy sitting on a bed.
Doctor Stubbs is lying prone, being treated) 
NURSE: Lay down carefully. There you go. 
WESLEY: Doctor Stubbs, the captain asked me to tell you that our
systems are back to normal, and we can try another launch attempt as
soon as you're ready. 
STUBBS: Quite a dynamic family team, you Crushers. 
CRUSHER: Well, it's nice to be together again. I was at Starfleet
Medical for a year. I missed about two inches of him. 
STUBBS: I'm not sure I'd want my mother to be flying through space with
me. No, I take that back. I am sure. I wouldn't want her. My mother is
a formidable woman, too. A woman of letters. A great critic. 
WESLEY: I know. 
STUBBS: Good Lord, son. You didn't read that unauthorised biography? Is
this all this boy does, Doctor? Fly the ship and read? Doesn't he ever
have any fun? 
CRUSHER: Sure he does. 
WESLEY: Actually, most of my free time is taken up with my studies. I'm
trying to get into Starfleet Academy, and I earn credits for the time
spent on the Enterprise, but it's just not the same. 
NURSE: Are you ready to sit up? 
STUBBS: Well. I am whole again. Thank you, Doctor. Come along, Wesley.
Let's go see if Humpty Dumpty is still in one piece. 
(Stubbs and Wesley leave, and Beverly goes to investigate the sound of
running liquid. A food dispenser is overflowing a glass) 
CRUSHER: Computer, fix the food slot. 
COMPUTER: The food slot is functioning properly. 
CRUSHER: Well, check again. 
COMPUTER: The food slot is functioning properly. 
CRUSHER: Computer, deactivate food slot.

[Engineering]

LAFORGE: We're analysing the engineering systems
data, Captain. So far we're showing nothing unusual 
[Ready room]

LAFORGE [OC]: In the computer log for that time
period. 
PICARD: Run a level one diagnostic series. Come. I want a computer
that's one hundred percent to expedite Doctor Stubbs' experiment. As
well as the food slots in Sickbay. Picard out. 
CRUSHER: Which seem to be working again, for the moment anyway. 
PICARD: What can I do for you, Doctor? 
CRUSHER: Jean-Luc, how would you feel if you were a seventeen year old
and the only Starfleet Officer whose mother was on board? 
PICARD: Inhibited, I suppose. But then, I'm not Wesley. And if you are
concerned about him, I see no evidence that there is a problem. 
CRUSHER: I know, but, in a funny kind of way, that's exactly my point.
We talk. We smile. It's almost too polite. 
PICARD: Beverly, isn't it just a matter of time? I know how difficult
it was for you being away. 
CRUSHER: Tell me about him. 
PICARD: Well, he's becoming a very fine officer. He works as hard as
any member of the crew. Riker says his studies are on line. 
CRUSHER: No. Tell me about him. 
PICARD: He's his father's son. Honest, trusting, strong. 
CRUSHER: Does he have many friends? Has he ever been in love? Jean-Luc,
I'm worried. He's come so far, so fast, And since I've been back, I
don't feel 
PICARD: His dependence. Beverly, look, he's seventeen years old. 
CRUSHER: What were you doing when you were seventeen? 
PICARD: Probably getting into more trouble than Wesley, I can assure
you. 
CRUSHER: So was I. Isn't that what seventeen's supposed to be?

[Shuttlebay]

STUBBS: No cracks in the armour. We'll do just
fine. 
WESLEY: How can you be so calm about this? If I was about to make this
kind of breakthrough 
STUBBS: I have never doubted for a moment that this day would come,
Wesley. And I suspect that some day it will come for you as well. I see
a lot of me in you. In my youth, they called me a vunderkind. Do you
understand vunderkind? 
WESLEY: It's German, isn't it? 
STUBBS: It means wonder child. It is reserved for those of us who
achieve early in life. Now the burden is yours. 
WESLEY: Burden? 
STUBBS: To fulfill your potential. You will never come up against a
greater adversary than your own potential, my young friend. 
WESLEY: Red Alert. Return to quarters immediately.

[Bridge]

PICARD: Still no visual contact. That's impossible.
Mister Worf, same magnification fifty degrees starboard. 
RIKER: Worf, you're absolutely sure? 
WORF: Sensors clearly indicate the approach of a Borg vessel. 
RIKER: Shields up. 
WORF: Shields are not responding. 
LAFORGE: Manual override is jammed. It's not going to work this time.
We don't have the shields, Captain. 
WORF: Captain, they're firing energy weapons at us. 
PICARD: Evasive action. 
RIKER: Bring her round to two seven five mark three. 
PICARD: Predict current vector of Borg ship. 
WORF: Vector. Is gone. And so is the Borg vessel. 
PICARD: You're telling me this is another computer glitch? 
DATA: It is conceivable that he was viewing a synthetically generated
image, sir. 
RIKER: That our computer was daydreaming? 
(The ship shakes and the doors start opening and closing rapidly) 
PICARD: Computer, identify malfunction immediately. 
COMPUTER: Pawn to Bishop Four. Knight to King's Rook Three. Bishop to
Queen's Bishop Four. Knight to Knight Five. Queen's Knight to King Two.

DATA: Controls are not responding, sir. 
COMPUTER: Queen to Bishop Three. Bishop to Bishop Two. LAFORGE: Impulse
engines are down. 
RIKER: Try warp engines. 
LAFORGE: No. Sorry, Commander. I'd better get back to Engineering 
PICARD: Mister La Forge, I want Lieutenant Worf to accompany you. Get
me a full report on the prospects of getting our shields back. Number
One, Mister Data, will you join me in the conference room as soon as
possible. It's time to discuss the future of this mission, if there
still is one.

[Observation lounge]

PICARD: The fact of the matter is, we are dealing
with a potential breakdown of the main computer. 
RIKER: That's hard to accept. 
DATA: The system automatically provides for self-correction, Captain.
There has not been a systems-wide technological failure on a starship
in seventy nine years. 
TROI: Excuse me, Captain, but Doctor Stubbs is waiting outside. 
(Stubbs has walked in) 
STUBBS: Captain, I'm sure you have everything under control. I'd just
like to know what's going on. 
PICARD: Of course, Doctor. Sit down. Counsellor. Commander La Forge is
attempting repairs even as we speak. 
STUBBS: Attempting. That doesn't sound particularly reassuring. 
PICARD: Doctor, if at all possible, we will continue this mission as
planned. 
STUBBS: Captain, if we miss our chance now, we don't get another for
two centuries. There will be many questions asked by Starfleet if the
Enterprise fails in its duty 
PICARD: Nevertheless, my first and foremost consideration will be to
ensure the safety of this ship and its crew. 
STUBBS: Ensure the safety, Captain? Or are you really talking about
playing it safe? 
PICARD: My dear Doctor, in our current position, when that star
explodes, you'll get to watch your experiment from the inside out. 
STUBBS: I would rather die than leave. 
PICARD: I don't believe you speak for the majority of the crew. 
TROI: Doctor Stubbs, I know how much this means to you. 
STUBBS: My dear Counsellor, no insult intended but please turn off your
beam into my soul. I will share the feelings I wish to share. Well, if
we do not leave in time, so be it. It's one sure way into the record
books, eh? 
(Stubbs leaves, hands in pockets) 
TROI: His nonchalance is studied and practised. 
PICARD: Even my sensory perception picked that up. 
TROI: He's put his entire self-worth on the line with this experiment.
He is telling the truth when he says he'd rather die than leave. 
[Engineering]

LAFORGE: Call up the cross-section of computer core
processor four five one. I want to see elements zero two hundred
through zero three hundred. 
CREWMAN: Aye, sir. 
LAFORGE: In order to get some power, I had to by-pass the computer
core. Essentially hotwire the connection. Whoa, whoa, right there. Look
at that lesion. No wonder we're coming apart at the seams. It's
definitely some kind of continuing disintegration, but from what I
can't tell you. And I haven't the slightest idea how to stop it. 
WESLEY: It's just a mechanical problem, though, right? 
LAFORGE: Increase magnification, factor fifty. I don't know, Wes, but
looking at it. You know, if I didn't know any better, I'd say someone
had climbed in there and started taking it apart.

[Laboratory]

(Wesley returns to check on the contents of a jar.
The lid had been open while he was asleep. The bottom falls out of his
world) 
