RIKER WORF PICARD LAFORGE [OC] TROI STUBBS CRUSHER DATA
little switched skills light mission face oxide snap penetrate

[Ready room]

PICARD: I can't get the story of Gulliver out of my
head. Overpowered by Lilliputians. How long do we have to wait? 
RIKER: We can continue to bypass the part of the computer that's
affected, but if the nanites are spreading through the whole the ship. 
PICARD: Do you smell a change? What? (coughs) 
[Bridge]

(The Bridge is filling with opaque gas) 
PICARD: Picard to La Forge. We have an environmental system malfunction
on the Bridge. Acknowledge. 
LAFORGE [OC]: Aye, sir. 
RIKER: Nitrogen oxide. Toxic levels.
LAFORGE [OC]: Working on it, Captain. 
(The air clears) 
RIKER: I've switched to manual control of the air handling system. 
(The lights go out, a panel explodes. Stubbs, Worf and Data enter) 

PICARD: Mister Worf, report. 
WORF: He entered a computer access room and sterilised one of the
processors with gamma radiation. 
DATA: The nanites in the upper core are all dead, Captain. 
STUBBS: You have no choice now. It is a matter of survival. 
PICARD: Doctor Stubbs, if you were a member of my crew, sir, I would 
STUBBS: But I am not a member of your crew, sir. I am a representative
of the highest command of the Federation, which has directed you to
perform my experiment. 
PICARD: If any man, woman or child on this ship is harmed as a result
of your experiment, I will have your head before the highest command in
the Federation. 
STUBBS: Good Lord, you are talking about machines with a screw loose.
Simply turn them off and be done with them. 
DATA: Doctor Stubbs, your own actions have provided evidence to the
contrary. When you destroyed the nanites in the core, they responded by
interfering with our life support systems. It is difficult to accept
these as random actions by machines with loose screws. In effect, you
may have proven that the nanites do have a collective intelligence. 
WORF: Captain, the ship is at risk. Extermination may be our only
alternative. 
STUBBS: A good point. 
PICARD: Lieutenant Worf, I want Doctor Stubbs confined to his quarters
until further notice. 
(Stubbs leaves with a guard, and the light come back) 
PICARD: Mister Data, can you find me some way to communicate with these
things? 
DATA: With intelligence, there is the capability of language, but it
will depend on how far their evolution has brought them. We could
modify the circuitry in the universal translator to make it capable of
communications with them. 
PICARD: Proceed.

[Stubbs' quarters]

TROI: May I come in? 
STUBBS: You just can't resist, can you, Counsellor? 
TROI: I only want to help. 
STUBBS: Yes, yes. To break the shell. To get in touch with my true
feelings. 
TROI: I'm only worried about your state of mind, Doctor. 
STUBBS: All right, Counsellor, what is it that has you so worried? 
TROI: Your single-mindedness, your need to have this experiment work. 
STUBBS: But it will. Picard has no choice now. He must defend the
Enterprise. Counsellor, when this is all over, I will show you New
Manhattan on Beth Delta One as you've never seen it, and we will laugh
over glasses of champagne. 
TROI: Your self portrait is so practiced, so polished. 
STUBBS: Yes, isn't it, though? 
TROI: It is stretched so tight the tension fills this room. And if you
finally fail, I fear it will snap. 
STUBBS: A good try, Counsellor. But sometimes when you reach beneath a
man's self portrait, as you so eloquently put it, deep down inside what
you find is nothing at all. 
(Troi leaves and Stubbs returns to his mental reconstruction of a 1951
baseball game) 
STUBBS: Lockman on first, Dark on second. Thompson at the plate Branca
on the mound. 
(Electric shorts blank out the various screens and monitors. Then a
bolt of energy leaps from the replicator into Stubbs like a lightening
hit. The guard outside hears his screams and forces the doors. Stubbs
collapses into his arms) 
[Sickbay]

CRUSHER: He's coming around. 
PICARD: I cannot believe this was not an arbitrary attack. 
CRUSHER: Has Data made any progress in contacting them? 
STUBBS: Picard. You must protect me. Kill them! 
(The lights flicker and the ship trembles) 
[Bridge]

PICARD: Commander Riker. On my signal, we will
gamma-irradiate all computer systems throughout the Enterprise. Let's
put an end to this conflict. 
RIKER: Worf, prepare to activate gamma pulse generators. 
WORF: Electromagnetic scanners ready, Captain. 
(Binary numbers come up on the station where Data is working) 
DATA: Captain. I have established contact. 
(Minutes later) 
DATA: As we continue, Captain, they are virtually learning the concept
of communication. Each new generation is making modifications. 
PICARD: Can we actually talk to them yet? 
DATA: I believe it is worth an attempt. sir. 
PICARD: Commander Riker, bring Doctor Stubbs to the Bridge. 
[Corridor]

STUBBS: I don't think this is a wise idea. They
have already tried to kill me once. 
RIKER: One sure way into the record books, Doctor. 
[Bridge]

DATA: I am ready, sir. 
PICARD: Tell them the human who destroyed their comrades is here and
wishes to address them. 
STUBBS: Captain, if I 
PICARD: You, sir, you will explain your error and apologise, and pray
that we can negotiate a peace we can all live with. Is that clear? 
DATA: Captain, if a face to face negotiation would be helpful, I would
like to volunteer myself as a conduit. 
RIKER: Yourself, Data? 
DATA: I can easily furnish the nanites with a schematic design of my
neurological structure. Entering my neural network would require no
more than their most basic skills. 
CRUSHER: That's what they were designed for. 
DATA: They could penetrate the molecular fabric of my hand-covering
into my nerve circuitry, and interface with my verbal programs. 
WORF: If they have control of a Starfleet Commander, they become an
even greater threat. 
PICARD: How can we be sure we can get them out of you? 
DATA: It would be a considerable risk, sir, but it would also represent
a gesture of trust on our part. It could be an important step toward
peace, sir. 
PICARD: All right, Data. Propose it to the nanites. 
DATA: The answer is yes.

[Computer core]

DATA: They are ready, Captain. 
PICARD: Proceed. 
(The little things enter through his finger tips. Possessed Data stands
and looks around, then speaks in a machine intonation) 
DATA: You are very strange looking creatures. 
PICARD: In our travels, we have encountered many other creatures,
perhaps even stranger-looking than ourselves. But we try to co-exist
peacefully with them. 
DATA: Why did you attack us? 
PICARD: We misinterpreted your actions as an attack on us. 
DATA: We were seeking raw materials for our replicating process. 
PICARD: Yes, but you endangered this vessel in which we all travel. You
nearly killed a crewmember. 
DATA: We meant no harm. We were exploring. 
PICARD: I understand. We are also explorers. We mean no harm to any
other living creature. 
STUBBS: I am the one responsible for the deaths in the computer core. 
DATA: We know who you are. 
STUBBS: I deeply regret the incident. I am a scientist on an important
mission. Your colleagues' exploration of the core memory put our
mission at risk. I was only trying to protect a lifetime of work from
being destroyed. I am at your mercy. 
DATA: What is at your mercy? 
PICARD: He asks your forgiveness. This conflict was started by mistakes
on both sides. Let's agree to end it here and now. 
DATA: We agree. 
PICARD: I pledge we will do everything possible to assist your
continued survival. 
DATA: Thank you, but we have evolved beyond any need for your
assistance. This vessel has become too confining. We require
relocation.

Captain's log, supplemental. Doctor Stubbs has used
his influence to have planet Kavis Alpha Four designated the new home
of the nanite civilisation. Commander Data's neural network has been
vacated. He has been returned to us unharmed. And with the help of the
nanites, our computer core has been reconstructed in time for the
experiment 
