RIKER LAFORGE CREWMAN PICARD STUBBS WESLEY GUINAN CRUSHER DATA

[Ten forward]

(Wesley is on hands and knees, placing traps by the
wall behind the bar) 
WESLEY: Guinan! I didn't think anyone would be here. 
GUINAN: I've never been any good at being confined to quarters, as my
husbands will attest to. What's that? 
WESLEY: I'm just setting traps. 
GUINAN: I run a clean place. 
WESLEY: I know. It's not that. It's. I'm scared, Guinan. I think that
everything that's been going wrong might be my fault. 
GUINAN: You want to tell me about it? 
WESLEY: I've been working on my final project for Advanced Genetics.
It's on nanotechnology. I've been studying the nanites we have in the
Sickbay genetic supplies. They're these little tiny robots with
gigabytes of mechanical computer memory. They're designed to enter
living cells and conduct repairs. They're supposed to remain confined
to the lab. 
GUINAN: Are you saying there are nanites loose? 
WESLEY: Two of them, that's all. I just wanted to see how they would
interact and function in tandem. You see, in my experiment, I had
proposed a theory that by working together they could combine their
skills and increase their usefulness. It was working. 
GUINAN: So you made better nanites. 
WESLEY: I was pulling an all-nighter to collect my final data. I fell
asleep. And when I woke up I
saw the container had been left open. It's just a science project. 
GUINAN: You know, a doctor friend once said the same thing to me.
Frankenstein was his name. 
WESLEY: They're really harmless. I mean, they're equipped with only the
most basic skills. It's almost impossible they could be responsible 
GUINAN: Almost. 
CRUSHER [OC]: Doctor Crusher to Wesley Crusher. 
WESLEY: Go ahead. 
CRUSHER [OC]: I stopped by your quarters, Wes. I assumed you'd be
there, since you're off duty. 
WESLEY: I know. I just I had some things to do 
CRUSHER [OC]: Orders are orders, Mister Crusher. 
WESLEY: On my way. You won't tell anybody, will you? I know. I will. If
it's true. 
GUINAN: Wes, do you think you're going to get a good grade? 
WESLEY: I always get an A. 
(Wesley leaves)
GUINAN: So did Doctor Frankenstein.

Captain's log, supplemental. Our computer core has
clearly been tampered with and yet there is no sign of a breach of
security on board. We have engines back and will attempt to complete
our mission, but without a reliable computer, Doctor Stubbs' experiment
is in serious jeopardy.

[Bridge]

RIKER: Manual restart sequence. 
LAFORGE: Manual restart successful. Impulse engine functions all appear
normal. 
PICARD: Proceed. 
RIKER: Shuttlebay two, open hangar door. 
CREWMAN [OC]: Aye, sir. 
[Shuttlebay]

CREWMAN: Door did not respond. 
[Bridge]

CREWMAN [OC]: Repeating sequence. 
(Then loud music comes over the ship's speakers) 
PICARD: What in heaven's name? 
DATA: It is 'Stars and Stripes Forever'. sir, by John Phillip Sousa, a
popular American composer of band music in the early twentieth century.

PICARD: Yes, yes, I know that. 
RIKER: Computer, shut off the music! 
DATA: The music is on all communications channels, sir. 
RIKER: Weapons. power, communications. We're being stripped one system
at a time. 
PICARD: Shut off the power to the Bridge. 
(The lights go out, and the music stops) 
PICARD: Commander La Forge, can you get us out of this star system
safely? 
STUBBS: No! 
RIKER: Not now, Doctor. 
LAFORGE: I'll try, Captain. I don't want to overload the engines. 
PICARD: Do it gently. But do it. 
RIKER: We'll circuit in auxiliary power to the Bridge. Somehow we'll
silence Sousa if he decides to play an encore. 
PICARD: The priority is to find out who or what is doing this. Number
One, the Bridge, such as it is, is yours.

[Shuttlebay]

STUBBS: The Egg that Stubbs laid. 
WESLEY: No one will say that. 
STUBBS: Nobody will say anything at all, Wesley. We will not even be
mentioned. I could live with failure. Well, maybe not. But never even
to try. To miss your one chance at bat. Do you know baseball? 
WESLEY: Yes, my father taught it to me when I was young. 
STUBBS: Once, centuries ago, it was the beloved national pastime of the
Americas, Wesley. Abandoned by a society that prized fast food and
faster games. Lost to impatience. But I have seen the great players
make the great plays. 
WESLEY: Do you recreate them on a holodeck? 
STUBBS: No. In here. (his head) With the knowledge of statistics, runs,
hits and errors, times at bat, box scores. Men like us do not need
holodecks, Wesley. I have played seasons in my mind. It was my reward
to myself for patience. Knowing my turn would come. Call your shot.
Point to a star. One great blast and the crowd rises. A brand new era
in astrophysics. Postponed one hundred and ninety six years on account
of rain. 
[Laboratory]

(Wesley is scanning his traps for the missing
nanites. One seems to come up positive when Doctor Crusher enters) 
CRUSHER: We have to talk. You really look like you could use some rest,
Wesley. 
WESLEY: I know. It's okay. Really. 
CRUSHER: No, it's not okay. Really. 
WESLEY: Look, mom, I'm just checking some traps that I set to see if I
can find out what's happening to the Enterprise. 
CRUSHER: On someone's orders? 
WESLEY: We're running out of time for Doctor Stubbs. 
CRUSHER: You can't put everything on your shoulders, Wesley. Even when
you're off duty, you're on duty. 
WESLEY: Mom, you don't understand. 
CRUSHER: You are a seventeen year old boy. 
WESLEY: I'm also an acting officer and I have responsibilities. 
CRUSHER: I'm beginning to think maybe you've taken on too many
responsibilities. 
WESLEY: Look, I have done everything that everyone has asked of me and
more. And how can you know? You haven't even been here. 
CRUSHER: I'm here now, Wesley. Come on, I'll help you. What are you
looking for? Wesley? 
WESLEY: I think I've made a horrible mistake. 

[Observation lounge]

(Beverly is giving the presentation) 
CRUSHER: Nanites. Tiny machines built from the atom up. Designed to
have exposure only to the inside of nucleii during
cellular surgeries. Until then, they are kept tightly confined in a
non-functioning state. 
DATA: These are not ordinary nanites. 
CRUSHER: No, they have evolved. 
STUBBS: Evolved? How does a machine evolve? 
WESLEY: It's true. I am responsible for this. I allowed two of the
nanites to interact for a school project. I wanted to increase their
capabilities. And they escaped. 
PICARD: School project? Just how far have these things evolved? 
WESLEY: Well, this is a sample of linear memory crystal from our
computer core. 
(The screen shows a scene out of Pacman) 
RIKER: It's like candy to them. 
CRUSHER: As you can see, they're able to mechanically replicate
themselves. 
DATA: It is conceivable that with each new generation they enhance
their own design. The rate of evolution would be extraordinary. 
PICARD: How many generations are we dealing with here? 
DATA: Engineering, display computer core processor four five one,
element zero two nine nine. 
DATA: Increase magnification, factor one thousand. 
PICARD: Can it be possible they know what they're doing? 
RIKER: Why would they attack us? 
STUBBS: Why does a mosquito bite your ear? and who cares? The answer is
simple. Call an exterminator. 
CRUSHER: Doctor Stubbs, these nanites are now working with a new
collective intelligence. Operating together. Teaching each other
skills. 
STUBBS: Oh really. I'm sorry but this is nonsense. You can't have a
civilisation of computer chips. They're made in a plant in Dakar,
Senegal. I've watched the construction. 
CRUSHER: Then how do you explain what we've seen here? 
STUBBS: It's no more mysterious than watching a strain of the Leutscher
virus reproduce itself. And that at least is a bona fide lifeform. How
many disease germs and viruses have you destroyed in your time, Doctor
Crusher? 
PICARD: Doctor Stubbs, we cannot exterminate something that may or may
not be intelligent. 
STUBBS: My good Captain. 
PICARD: There's still time. Ensign, will you work with mister Data to
try to remove them safely. If things get worse, we'll use stronger
measures.

[Computer core]

STUBBS: Gentlemen. I need a computer that is one
hundred percent in less than eight hours, and we still have core
reconstruction to consider. 
WESLEY: We're trying low gamma bursts. We think it might slow down
their productivity. 
STUBBS: Have you considered a high level charge? 
DATA: High level gamma radiation would kill them, Doctor. 
STUBBS: I know. 
(So he fires something at a computer wall panel)

