TROI LAFORGE WORF PICARD RIKER STUBBS WESLEY GUINAN COMPUTER CREWMAN CRUSHER DATA

[Engineering]

LAFORGE: We're analysing the engineering systems
data, Captain. So far we're showing nothing unusual 
[Ready room]

LAFORGE [OC]: In the computer log for that time
period. 
PICARD: Run a level one diagnostic series. Come. I want a computer
that's one hundred percent to expedite Doctor Stubbs' experiment. As
well as the food slots in Sickbay. Picard out. 
CRUSHER: Which seem to be working again, for the moment anyway. 
PICARD: What can I do for you, Doctor? 
CRUSHER: Jean-Luc, how would you feel if you were a seventeen year old
and the only Starfleet Officer whose mother was on board? 
PICARD: Inhibited, I suppose. But then, I'm not Wesley. And if you are
concerned about him, I see no evidence that there is a problem. 
CRUSHER: I know, but, in a funny kind of way, that's exactly my point.
We talk. We smile. It's almost too polite. 
PICARD: Beverly, isn't it just a matter of time? I know how difficult
it was for you being away. 
CRUSHER: Tell me about him. 
PICARD: Well, he's becoming a very fine officer. He works as hard as
any member of the crew. Riker says his studies are on line. 
CRUSHER: No. Tell me about him. 
PICARD: He's his father's son. Honest, trusting, strong. 
CRUSHER: Does he have many friends? Has he ever been in love? Jean-Luc,
I'm worried. He's come so far, so fast, And since I've been back, I
don't feel 
PICARD: His dependence. Beverly, look, he's seventeen years old. 
CRUSHER: What were you doing when you were seventeen? 
PICARD: Probably getting into more trouble than Wesley, I can assure
you. 
CRUSHER: So was I. Isn't that what seventeen's supposed to be?

[Shuttlebay]

STUBBS: No cracks in the armour. We'll do just
fine. 
WESLEY: How can you be so calm about this? If I was about to make this
kind of breakthrough 
STUBBS: I have never doubted for a moment that this day would come,
Wesley. And I suspect that some day it will come for you as well. I see
a lot of me in you. In my youth, they called me a vunderkind. Do you
understand vunderkind? 
WESLEY: It's German, isn't it? 
STUBBS: It means wonder child. It is reserved for those of us who
achieve early in life. Now the burden is yours. 
WESLEY: Burden? 
STUBBS: To fulfill your potential. You will never come up against a
greater adversary than your own potential, my young friend. 
WESLEY: Red Alert. Return to quarters immediately.

[Bridge]

PICARD: Still no visual contact. That's impossible.
Mister Worf, same magnification fifty degrees starboard. 
RIKER: Worf, you're absolutely sure? 
WORF: Sensors clearly indicate the approach of a Borg vessel. 
RIKER: Shields up. 
WORF: Shields are not responding. 
LAFORGE: Manual override is jammed. It's not going to work this time.
We don't have the shields, Captain. 
WORF: Captain, they're firing energy weapons at us. 
PICARD: Evasive action. 
RIKER: Bring her round to two seven five mark three. 
PICARD: Predict current vector of Borg ship. 
WORF: Vector. Is gone. And so is the Borg vessel. 
PICARD: You're telling me this is another computer glitch? 
DATA: It is conceivable that he was viewing a synthetically generated
image, sir. 
RIKER: That our computer was daydreaming? 
(The ship shakes and the doors start opening and closing rapidly) 
PICARD: Computer, identify malfunction immediately. 
COMPUTER: Pawn to Bishop Four. Knight to King's Rook Three. Bishop to
Queen's Bishop Four. Knight to Knight Five. Queen's Knight to King Two.

DATA: Controls are not responding, sir. 
COMPUTER: Queen to Bishop Three. Bishop to Bishop Two. LAFORGE: Impulse
engines are down. 
RIKER: Try warp engines. 
LAFORGE: No. Sorry, Commander. I'd better get back to Engineering 
PICARD: Mister La Forge, I want Lieutenant Worf to accompany you. Get
me a full report on the prospects of getting our shields back. Number
One, Mister Data, will you join me in the conference room as soon as
possible. It's time to discuss the future of this mission, if there
still is one.

[Observation lounge]

PICARD: The fact of the matter is, we are dealing
with a potential breakdown of the main computer. 
RIKER: That's hard to accept. 
DATA: The system automatically provides for self-correction, Captain.
There has not been a systems-wide technological failure on a starship
in seventy nine years. 
TROI: Excuse me, Captain, but Doctor Stubbs is waiting outside. 
(Stubbs has walked in) 
STUBBS: Captain, I'm sure you have everything under control. I'd just
like to know what's going on. 
PICARD: Of course, Doctor. Sit down. Counsellor. Commander La Forge is
attempting repairs even as we speak. 
STUBBS: Attempting. That doesn't sound particularly reassuring. 
PICARD: Doctor, if at all possible, we will continue this mission as
planned. 
STUBBS: Captain, if we miss our chance now, we don't get another for
two centuries. There will be many questions asked by Starfleet if the
Enterprise fails in its duty 
PICARD: Nevertheless, my first and foremost consideration will be to
ensure the safety of this ship and its crew. 
STUBBS: Ensure the safety, Captain? Or are you really talking about
playing it safe? 
PICARD: My dear Doctor, in our current position, when that star
explodes, you'll get to watch your experiment from the inside out. 
STUBBS: I would rather die than leave. 
PICARD: I don't believe you speak for the majority of the crew. 
TROI: Doctor Stubbs, I know how much this means to you. 
STUBBS: My dear Counsellor, no insult intended but please turn off your
beam into my soul. I will share the feelings I wish to share. Well, if
we do not leave in time, so be it. It's one sure way into the record
books, eh? 
(Stubbs leaves, hands in pockets) 
TROI: His nonchalance is studied and practised. 
PICARD: Even my sensory perception picked that up. 
TROI: He's put his entire self-worth on the line with this experiment.
He is telling the truth when he says he'd rather die than leave. 
[Engineering]

LAFORGE: Call up the cross-section of computer core
processor four five one. I want to see elements zero two hundred
through zero three hundred. 
CREWMAN: Aye, sir. 
LAFORGE: In order to get some power, I had to by-pass the computer
core. Essentially hotwire the connection. Whoa, whoa, right there. Look
at that lesion. No wonder we're coming apart at the seams. It's
definitely some kind of continuing disintegration, but from what I
can't tell you. And I haven't the slightest idea how to stop it. 
WESLEY: It's just a mechanical problem, though, right? 
LAFORGE: Increase magnification, factor fifty. I don't know, Wes, but
looking at it. You know, if I didn't know any better, I'd say someone
had climbed in there and started taking it apart.

[Laboratory]

(Wesley returns to check on the contents of a jar.
The lid had been open while he was asleep. The bottom falls out of his
world) 
[Ten forward]

(Wesley is on hands and knees, placing traps by the
wall behind the bar) 
WESLEY: Guinan! I didn't think anyone would be here. 
GUINAN: I've never been any good at being confined to quarters, as my
husbands will attest to. What's that? 
WESLEY: I'm just setting traps. 
GUINAN: I run a clean place. 
WESLEY: I know. It's not that. It's. I'm scared, Guinan. I think that
everything that's been going wrong might be my fault. 
GUINAN: You want to tell me about it? 
WESLEY: I've been working on my final project for Advanced Genetics.
It's on nanotechnology. I've been studying the nanites we have in the
Sickbay genetic supplies. They're these little tiny robots with
gigabytes of mechanical computer memory. They're designed to enter
living cells and conduct repairs. They're supposed to remain confined
to the lab. 
GUINAN: Are you saying there are nanites loose? 
WESLEY: Two of them, that's all. I just wanted to see how they would
interact and function in tandem. You see, in my experiment, I had
proposed a theory that by working together they could combine their
skills and increase their usefulness. It was working. 
GUINAN: So you made better nanites. 
WESLEY: I was pulling an all-nighter to collect my final data. I fell
asleep. And when I woke up I
saw the container had been left open. It's just a science project. 
GUINAN: You know, a doctor friend once said the same thing to me.
Frankenstein was his name. 
WESLEY: They're really harmless. I mean, they're equipped with only the
most basic skills. It's almost impossible they could be responsible 
GUINAN: Almost. 
CRUSHER [OC]: Doctor Crusher to Wesley Crusher. 
WESLEY: Go ahead. 
CRUSHER [OC]: I stopped by your quarters, Wes. I assumed you'd be
there, since you're off duty. 
WESLEY: I know. I just I had some things to do 
CRUSHER [OC]: Orders are orders, Mister Crusher. 
WESLEY: On my way. You won't tell anybody, will you? I know. I will. If
it's true. 
GUINAN: Wes, do you think you're going to get a good grade? 
WESLEY: I always get an A. 
(Wesley leaves)
GUINAN: So did Doctor Frankenstein.

Captain's log, supplemental. Our computer core has
clearly been tampered with and yet there is no sign of a breach of
security on board. We have engines back and will attempt to complete
our mission, but without a reliable computer, Doctor Stubbs' experiment
is in serious jeopardy.

