RIKER LAFORGE CREWMAN PICARD STUBBS WESLEY CRUSHER DATA

[Bridge]

RIKER: Manual restart sequence. 
LAFORGE: Manual restart successful. Impulse engine functions all appear
normal. 
PICARD: Proceed. 
RIKER: Shuttlebay two, open hangar door. 
CREWMAN [OC]: Aye, sir. 
[Shuttlebay]

CREWMAN: Door did not respond. 
[Bridge]

CREWMAN [OC]: Repeating sequence. 
(Then loud music comes over the ship's speakers) 
PICARD: What in heaven's name? 
DATA: It is 'Stars and Stripes Forever'. sir, by John Phillip Sousa, a
popular American composer of band music in the early twentieth century.

PICARD: Yes, yes, I know that. 
RIKER: Computer, shut off the music! 
DATA: The music is on all communications channels, sir. 
RIKER: Weapons. power, communications. We're being stripped one system
at a time. 
PICARD: Shut off the power to the Bridge. 
(The lights go out, and the music stops) 
PICARD: Commander La Forge, can you get us out of this star system
safely? 
STUBBS: No! 
RIKER: Not now, Doctor. 
LAFORGE: I'll try, Captain. I don't want to overload the engines. 
PICARD: Do it gently. But do it. 
RIKER: We'll circuit in auxiliary power to the Bridge. Somehow we'll
silence Sousa if he decides to play an encore. 
PICARD: The priority is to find out who or what is doing this. Number
One, the Bridge, such as it is, is yours.

[Shuttlebay]

STUBBS: The Egg that Stubbs laid. 
WESLEY: No one will say that. 
STUBBS: Nobody will say anything at all, Wesley. We will not even be
mentioned. I could live with failure. Well, maybe not. But never even
to try. To miss your one chance at bat. Do you know baseball? 
WESLEY: Yes, my father taught it to me when I was young. 
STUBBS: Once, centuries ago, it was the beloved national pastime of the
Americas, Wesley. Abandoned by a society that prized fast food and
faster games. Lost to impatience. But I have seen the great players
make the great plays. 
WESLEY: Do you recreate them on a holodeck? 
STUBBS: No. In here. (his head) With the knowledge of statistics, runs,
hits and errors, times at bat, box scores. Men like us do not need
holodecks, Wesley. I have played seasons in my mind. It was my reward
to myself for patience. Knowing my turn would come. Call your shot.
Point to a star. One great blast and the crowd rises. A brand new era
in astrophysics. Postponed one hundred and ninety six years on account
of rain. 
[Laboratory]

(Wesley is scanning his traps for the missing
nanites. One seems to come up positive when Doctor Crusher enters) 
CRUSHER: We have to talk. You really look like you could use some rest,
Wesley. 
WESLEY: I know. It's okay. Really. 
CRUSHER: No, it's not okay. Really. 
WESLEY: Look, mom, I'm just checking some traps that I set to see if I
can find out what's happening to the Enterprise. 
CRUSHER: On someone's orders? 
WESLEY: We're running out of time for Doctor Stubbs. 
CRUSHER: You can't put everything on your shoulders, Wesley. Even when
you're off duty, you're on duty. 
WESLEY: Mom, you don't understand. 
CRUSHER: You are a seventeen year old boy. 
WESLEY: I'm also an acting officer and I have responsibilities. 
CRUSHER: I'm beginning to think maybe you've taken on too many
responsibilities. 
WESLEY: Look, I have done everything that everyone has asked of me and
more. And how can you know? You haven't even been here. 
CRUSHER: I'm here now, Wesley. Come on, I'll help you. What are you
looking for? Wesley? 
WESLEY: I think I've made a horrible mistake. 

[Observation lounge]

(Beverly is giving the presentation) 
CRUSHER: Nanites. Tiny machines built from the atom up. Designed to
have exposure only to the inside of nucleii during
cellular surgeries. Until then, they are kept tightly confined in a
non-functioning state. 
DATA: These are not ordinary nanites. 
CRUSHER: No, they have evolved. 
STUBBS: Evolved? How does a machine evolve? 
WESLEY: It's true. I am responsible for this. I allowed two of the
nanites to interact for a school project. I wanted to increase their
capabilities. And they escaped. 
PICARD: School project? Just how far have these things evolved? 
WESLEY: Well, this is a sample of linear memory crystal from our
computer core. 
(The screen shows a scene out of Pacman) 
RIKER: It's like candy to them. 
CRUSHER: As you can see, they're able to mechanically replicate
themselves. 
DATA: It is conceivable that with each new generation they enhance
their own design. The rate of evolution would be extraordinary. 
PICARD: How many generations are we dealing with here? 
DATA: Engineering, display computer core processor four five one,
element zero two nine nine. 
DATA: Increase magnification, factor one thousand. 
PICARD: Can it be possible they know what they're doing? 
RIKER: Why would they attack us? 
STUBBS: Why does a mosquito bite your ear? and who cares? The answer is
simple. Call an exterminator. 
CRUSHER: Doctor Stubbs, these nanites are now working with a new
collective intelligence. Operating together. Teaching each other
skills. 
STUBBS: Oh really. I'm sorry but this is nonsense. You can't have a
civilisation of computer chips. They're made in a plant in Dakar,
Senegal. I've watched the construction. 
CRUSHER: Then how do you explain what we've seen here? 
STUBBS: It's no more mysterious than watching a strain of the Leutscher
virus reproduce itself. And that at least is a bona fide lifeform. How
many disease germs and viruses have you destroyed in your time, Doctor
Crusher? 
PICARD: Doctor Stubbs, we cannot exterminate something that may or may
not be intelligent. 
STUBBS: My good Captain. 
PICARD: There's still time. Ensign, will you work with mister Data to
try to remove them safely. If things get worse, we'll use stronger
measures.

[Computer core]

STUBBS: Gentlemen. I need a computer that is one
hundred percent in less than eight hours, and we still have core
reconstruction to consider. 
WESLEY: We're trying low gamma bursts. We think it might slow down
their productivity. 
STUBBS: Have you considered a high level charge? 
DATA: High level gamma radiation would kill them, Doctor. 
STUBBS: I know. 
(So he fires something at a computer wall panel)

[Ready room]

PICARD: I can't get the story of Gulliver out of my
head. Overpowered by Lilliputians. How long do we have to wait? 
RIKER: We can continue to bypass the part of the computer that's
affected, but if the nanites are spreading through the whole the ship. 
PICARD: Do you smell a change? What? (coughs) 
