TROI LAFORGE WORF PICARD RIKER RISHON CRUSHER KEVIN

[Living room]

RISHON: I'll make everyone a nice cup of tea. We
have lovely tea here on Rana. It grows wild nearly every (realises) 
WORF: Sir. May I say your attempt to hold the away team at bay with a
nonfunctioning weapon was an act of unmitigated gall. 
KEVIN: Didn't fool you, huh? 
WORF: I admire gall. 
(Data is looking at ornaments on a shelf) 
RISHON: Go ahead, pick it up. It's a music box. It's been in my family
for generations. 
(As Data watches the little man and woman dance, Troi hears the tune in
her quarters on the Enterprise) 
RIKER: There's nothing unusual about this house, except the fact that
it's here. What about them? 
CRUSHER: They're in reasonably good health. Both show signs of stress,
which is understandable considering what they've been through. 
RIKER: Somehow, they're different. Let's get back to the ship. We'll
take them with us. Excuse, Mrs. Uxbridge. We'd better return to our
ship now. 
RISHON: But I haven't finished fixing your tea, Commander. 
RIKER: I'm sorry, but we're finished here. Now, I can allow time for
you and Kevin to pack. 
RISHON: What do you mean, pack? 
KEVIN: You're not thinking of taking us with you, are you? 
RIKER: Surely you don't want to remain here? How can you take care of
yourselves? 
RISHON: Kevin, I can't leave my home. Don't let them do this to us. 
KEVIN: No one's going to make us leave. 
RIKER: You'll be protected on our ship. You could still be in danger
here on Rana. 
KEVIN: Commander, we appreciate your concern but we're not going
anywhere. We'll manage. We always have. 
RIKER: All right. I can't make you come with us. (takes off his comm.
badge) Are you familiar with one of these? We'll be in the system for
the next several days at least. If you reconsider, please contact us. 
RISHON: We'll be fine, Commander. We have each other.

[Observation lounge]

PICARD: Are they collaborators? Did they provide
the colony's assailants with something that abetted the total
destruction of Rana Four in order to protect their own lives? 
CRUSHER: What could two botanists in their eighties possess that could
possibly aid whoever attacked the planet? 
PICARD: We don't know what the enemy needed, Doctor. Love? Fear? Hope? 
(The sound of the music in Troi's head almost drowns out the next two
lines) 
LAFORGE: Maybe they're being held hostage in some fashion? 
CRUSHER: Nothing in the tricorder readings indicated they were under
that kind of stress. 
PICARD: Counsellor? Counsellor Troi? 
TROI: I'm sorry. I don't sense them well enough. 
(Once again the music renders the dialogue increasingly inaudible) 
PICARD: Number One, you say the couple is incapable of sustaining
themselves? 
RIKER: There's a fusion reactor in the house, good for another five
years of power. But their
water table is tainted. They have nothing to feed themselves except for
a small garden. 
PICARD: They won't come to the ship? 
RIKER: They were adamant. 
PICARD: We'll do all that we can to help them but in the meantime I
want them kept under surveillance. 
TROI: I'm sorry, I'm not feeling very well. I'd like to go to my
quarters. 
PICARD: By all means. 
CRUSHER: Is there anything I can do?

[Corridor]

WORF: Captain, a search of the Ranian system has
determined that the hostile force that attacked this planet is no
longer present. 
PICARD: I remember a Starfleet admiral once saying the same thing about
some renegade Andorians in the Triangulum system. It turns out that
they had dismantled their ship and hidden it. 
WORF: Those Andorians did not have to contend with someone of my
thoroughness. I will stake my reputation.

