TROI WORF PICARD RISHON CRUSHER KEVIN

[Garden]

(Picard and Worf beam is as Kevin and Rishon are
tending some shrubs) 
PICARD: Good afternoon. I'm sorry if I startled you. I'm Jean-Luc
Picard, Captain of the Enterprise. I have brought you something you
will need if you're going to stay on Rana Four. It's a matter
replicator. It has limited capabilities, but 
KEVIN: Thank you, but we have no use for such a thing. 
PICARD: It will provide you with clothing, food and clean water.
Lieutenant Worf demonstrate its operation. 
KEVIN: We don't need it. 
RISHON: Kevin, you know we do. Thank you, Captain. Kevin and I were
about to have afternoon tea. You and Mister Worf must join us. 
PICARD: I'd like that very much. 
KEVIN: Rishon, they only want to spy on us like this morning. 
RISHON: Kevin Uxbridge, I have never turned anyone away from this
house, and I'm not going to start now. Captain. 
PICARD: Thank you. 
[Troi's quarters]

TROI: Stop! Stop! Please, I'll do anything! Make it
stop! 
(Crusher enters the darkened room) 
CRUSHER: Please. I'm here to help. 
TROI: It's so loud! It's getting louder! Please, I can't stand it. Make
it stop! 
CRUSHER: Move her to the bed. 
(two assistants get Troi out of the chair) 
CRUSHER: This will help you relax. 
TROI: I hear it. It's still there! It's so loud! 
CRUSHER: Take her to Sickbay. 
TROI: No, I want to stay in my quarters. 
CRUSHER: I can get you to sleep. 
TROI: I don't want to sleep. The music will only follow me. 
CRUSHER: I can induce delta sleep. Lock out even your deepest dreams. 
TROI: It's not a dream. It's real.

[Living room]

RISHON: Kevin and I first saw each other on a ship
at sea. He was a starving student with this threadbare suit and
mismatched shoes. I was travelling with my parents who did not like the
way that he kept hanging around. Two hours after I met him, I asked him
to marry me. And he knew I was serious. I don't think that he has ever
recovered from that day. 
(A suction sound as Worf drains the tiny cup) 
RISHON: Well, what do you think, Mister Worf? 
WORF: Good tea. Nice house. 
PICARD: Why did you leave the Earth and come to a brand new planet when
you did? 
RISHON: You mean at our age. Well, we thought it might make us fall in
love all over again. It worked. 
PICARD: Must have been terrible when the colony was fighting for its
life. 
RISHON: Yes, it was. Fires lit the sky. There was thunder, this
unbelievable thunder. The ground never stopped shaking. 
PICARD: And yet you survived. 
RISHON: We don't know why we survived and the others didn't. I've tried
to put some purpose to it, but I can't. 
KEVIN: I was wondering, Captain, when you and your ship would be
leaving. 
PICARD: I don't have an answer for that. A few hours ago, we
encountered a warship. Possibly the one which attacked you. We forced
it to leave the system but we were unable to affect it otherwise. It
could return. 
RISHON: Kevin, you said it had gone away. 
KEVIN: I guess I was wrong. Don't worry. It didn't hurt us before, it
won't hurt us now. 
PICARD: Do you know that for a fact, Kevin? 
KEVIN: No, but I don't enjoy seeing my wife frightened. We've told you
time and time again, we don't know why we were spared. 
PICARD: But there had to be some reason. In some way, you were
different from the other colonists. Your
geographical location, your philosophical beliefs, the colour of your
eyes. In some way you were set apart from them. 
KEVIN: There was a difference. I'm a man of special conscience. While
the others were doing what they could, I chose not to fight. 
PICARD: Well that is your protected right. 
KEVIN: But I can assure you the attacking ship had no way of realising
this. I expected to die like all the others. There's no reason for you
and your ship to remain, Captain. We can manage without you. 
(Kevin leaves the room) 
RISHON: Kevin grieved for the others, Captain, but he did nothing. He
is a very gentle man. You must understand that. 
PICARD: What about you, Rishon? Is that how you feel? 
RISHON: I wanted to fight but I stayed with my husband. Well, Captain,
thank you again for the replicator. I'd better clean up now. 
PICARD: Before we leave, I ask you one more time to come to the ship.
For your own safety. 
RISHON: Captain, I am frightened but I can't leave Rana, even if it
means my life.

