RIKER LAFORGE WORF PICARD LAFORGE [OC] WESLEY DATA
shot megawatts rapidly engineering dagger close ship comes er

[Bridge]

RIKER: Data, give us a visual. Magnification factor
fifty. 
(a dagger shaped warship comes into view) 
WESLEY: Look at the size of that! 
(Picard enters) 
PICARD: Now where did that come from? 
RIKER: Apparently it was riding a Lagrange point, hiding behind Rana
Four's furthest moon. 
DATA: Our vehicle classification index can put no identity to it. Its
design is completely foreign. 
RIKER: But that's our boy. Approximately five times our mass and
carrying enough armament to pulverize a planet. 
PICARD: Lieutenant? 
WORF: I, er, cannot explain this, Captain. 
RIKER: It's heading for the planet. 
PICARD: Hailing frequencies. 
WORF: Open. 
PICARD: Mister Data, ask them to identify themselves and match our
orbit. 
DATA: They have received the message, Captain, but are ignoring it. 
PICARD: Maximum shields, ready all weapon systems. 
WORF: Aye, sir. 
RIKER: It's assuming an attack posture. Don't be surprised if 
(Boom) 
WORF: The vessel is firing jacketed streams of positrons and
antiprotons. Equivalent firepower, forty megawatts. Shields are
holding. (Boom, boom) Again, forty megawatts. No damage. 
RIKER: If that's the best they can do, this should last about five
minutes. 
PICARD: Mister Worf, let's raise our voice a little. Fire phasers. Just
a warning shot. Mister Data, invite them to stand to. 
(One feeble phaser shot and the ship high-tails it away) 
DATA: The vessel has assumed a position outside of the Rana system, and
it is rapidly increasing velocity. 
PICARD: Helm, initiate pursuit. 
WESLEY: Aye, sir. The vessel has reached warp two and continues on a
steady acceleration curve. We're not getting any closer, Commander. 
RIKER: Give us a superior curve, Mister Crusher. 
WESLEY: Warp three. Warp four. The warship continues to match our curve
simultaneously point for point. Warp four point five. Warp five. Warp
five point five. 
RIKER: Riker to La Forge. Give us everything you can to close the gap,
Geordi. 
LAFORGE [OC]: Yes, sir. 
[Engineering]

LAFORGE: I'll get you to nine point three seven in
fifteen seconds. 
[Bridge]

WESLEY: Warp eight point five. Warp nine. The
warship continues to match our acceleration curve perfectly. 
PICARD: Number One, I have the distinct impression that we're being
toyed with. Take us back to Rana Four. 
RIKER: Back? 
PICARD: We have unfinished business there. I need to have a talk with
those two people. You have the Bridge. 
RIKER: Reduce speed. Bring us around on a return course. This one's
getting away.

