TROI LAFORGE WORF PICARD RIKER CRUSHER

[Observation lounge]

PICARD: Are they collaborators? Did they provide
the colony's assailants with something that abetted the total
destruction of Rana Four in order to protect their own lives? 
CRUSHER: What could two botanists in their eighties possess that could
possibly aid whoever attacked the planet? 
PICARD: We don't know what the enemy needed, Doctor. Love? Fear? Hope? 
(The sound of the music in Troi's head almost drowns out the next two
lines) 
LAFORGE: Maybe they're being held hostage in some fashion? 
CRUSHER: Nothing in the tricorder readings indicated they were under
that kind of stress. 
PICARD: Counsellor? Counsellor Troi? 
TROI: I'm sorry. I don't sense them well enough. 
(Once again the music renders the dialogue increasingly inaudible) 
PICARD: Number One, you say the couple is incapable of sustaining
themselves? 
RIKER: There's a fusion reactor in the house, good for another five
years of power. But their
water table is tainted. They have nothing to feed themselves except for
a small garden. 
PICARD: They won't come to the ship? 
RIKER: They were adamant. 
PICARD: We'll do all that we can to help them but in the meantime I
want them kept under surveillance. 
TROI: I'm sorry, I'm not feeling very well. I'd like to go to my
quarters. 
PICARD: By all means. 
CRUSHER: Is there anything I can do?

[Corridor]

WORF: Captain, a search of the Ranian system has
determined that the hostile force that attacked this planet is no
longer present. 
PICARD: I remember a Starfleet admiral once saying the same thing about
some renegade Andorians in the Triangulum system. It turns out that
they had dismantled their ship and hidden it. 
WORF: Those Andorians did not have to contend with someone of my
thoroughness. I will stake my reputation.

[Troi's quarters]

TROI: Don't listen. Think of something else. Stop!
Please, stop! 
(The doorbell chimes and she pulls herself together) 
TROI: Yes? 
(Picard enters) 
PICARD: I was concerned. I came to see if I could be of any help. 
TROI: I'm fine. There's nothing wrong. I'm just tired, that's all. 
PICARD: Now, I may not have your gifts at reading emotions, Counsellor,
but I can tell when someone is in pain and hiding it. 
TROI: It's so silly. I hear music. In my mind. Music that won't stop. 
PICARD: Perhaps it's a symptom of fatigue. We've all been inflicted one
time or another with that melody that won't go away. 
TROI: No, it's deeper than that. The song doesn't stops for an instant.
It plays in perfect clarity from beginning to end over and over again.
I don't even know what song it is. I never heard it before. 
PICARD: When did this start? 
TROI: A few hours ago, while the away team was on the surface. I was
trying to, I was thinking of Rishon and Kevin. 
PICARD: Rishon and Kevin? And? 
TROI: I can't explain it, Captain. They're elusive. They're, I'm sorry 
PICARD: Well, try and rest. Take the necessary sleep inducements if you
have to. 
(Red alert sounds)

