TROI LAFORGE WORF PICARD RIKER RISHON CRUSHER DATA KEVIN
challenges rana attacked number coincidence leave individual years piece

[Corridor]

CRUSHER: If they're the only survivors of a nuclear
holocaust, they can't be in very good shape. 
PICARD: I understand. Counsellor? 
TROI: What I sense of them is human. 
PICARD: And something else? 
TROI: It's difficult to explain. I feel there's something different
about these two people. I'm sorry. I can't be clearer than that. 
RIKER: We're ready.

[Transporter room]

PICARD: Good luck, Number One. 
(Riker, Crusher, La Forge, Data and Worf are the away team) 
RIKER: Energise. 
[Lawn]

(A nicely kept square in front of an L-shaped
futuristic house. Edged with trees to stop us seeing the ruined
countryside) 
RIKER: Geordi, what can you tell me? 
LAFORGE: The house is a typical settlement structure with adaptations.
Its thermal properties all seem to conform to known materials. 
DATA: If there are indicators as to why this particular area has
remained intact, I cannot detect them. 
RIKER: Worf, the interior of the house? 
WORF: There is one individual is located at the south end of the house,
the other toward the north. There is a weapon, a low-yield phaser,
nonfunctional, in proximity to the front-room individual. 
RIKER: I guess a frontal assault is unwarranted. Stay here. I think
I'll try an old-fashioned knock on the door. 
LAFORGE: Commander, wait. There's something concealed under the surface

(too late. Riker has triggered an booby trap and is now hanging upside
down from a pole. An
elderly man challenges them) 
KEVIN: What are you doing there? This is private property Who are you
people? 
RIKER: I'm Commander William Riker of the USS Enterprise. Crewmembers.
May I comet down and approach you? 
KEVIN: You leave him right where he is. 
WORF: Should I incapacitate him, Commander? 
RIKER: No. We're a rescue party. We picked up your colony's distress
call and we came as fast as we could. 
(a small elderly but spry woman rushes out) 
RISHON: Kevin! Kevin, what are you doing? Can't you see they're here to
help us? Can't you see they're human? 
KEVIN: Go back in the house, Rishon. This could be some kind of a
trick. 
RISHON: We'd almost given up hope. We were afraid maybe the whole
Federation had been attacked. 
(in the background, Riker is released from the snare) 
CRUSHER: What about the colony? Do you know of any other survivors? 
RISHON: It's been days since we've seen or heard from anybody. No,
don't. Don't tell me that we're the only ones. 
KEVIN: They came in a spaceship so big you could see it in orbit. They
took our world apart piece by piece. 
RIKER: Who? 
KEVIN: We don't know. We never saw their faces. 
RIKER: You don't know where they came from? Where they are now? 
KEVIN: I guess they've gone away. 
CRUSHER: Oh, I'm sorry. I'm only performing a physical. Could I have
your names, please, just for the record. 
RISHON: I'm Rishon Uxbridge and this is my husband Kevin. 
DATA: Botanists. Originally from the aquatic city New Martim Vaz in
Earth's Atlantic Ocean. Residents of the Rana Four colony for five
years. You, ma'am, are eighty two years of age and a composer of Tao
classical music. You, sir, are eighty five years of age and a
specialist in symbiotic plant life. You have been married for fifty
three years. I memorised the colony register on the way to Rana Four,
in the event that such information would be needed. 
KEVIN: Is something wrong? 
RIKER: With your permission, I'd like to look inside of the house. 
KEVIN: Why? What could interest you in there? 
RIKER: Mister Uxbridge, as far as we've been able to determine, you and
your wife and this house are all that survived that attack. That's was
either a bizarre coincidence or by design, and I don't favour the
coincidence theory. 
KEVIN: Are you saying that we were kept alive intentionally? 
RIKER: Yes. 
KEVIN: I don't understand. You don't think Rishon and I did something
that merited survival, do you? I mean, betrayed the others? 
RIKER: I'm not accusing you of anything, Mister Uxbridge. The attacking
force spared you for some reason. We'd like to know why. Now, may I go
inside? 
