RIKER WORF PICARD WESLEY RISHON MEDIC [OC] CRUSHER DATA KEVIN
thunder stimuli hurt colonists parents enter worked assistance fact

[Living room]

RISHON: Kevin and I first saw each other on a ship
at sea. He was a starving student with this threadbare suit and
mismatched shoes. I was travelling with my parents who did not like the
way that he kept hanging around. Two hours after I met him, I asked him
to marry me. And he knew I was serious. I don't think that he has ever
recovered from that day. 
(A suction sound as Worf drains the tiny cup) 
RISHON: Well, what do you think, Mister Worf? 
WORF: Good tea. Nice house. 
PICARD: Why did you leave the Earth and come to a brand new planet when
you did? 
RISHON: You mean at our age. Well, we thought it might make us fall in
love all over again. It worked. 
PICARD: Must have been terrible when the colony was fighting for its
life. 
RISHON: Yes, it was. Fires lit the sky. There was thunder, this
unbelievable thunder. The ground never stopped shaking. 
PICARD: And yet you survived. 
RISHON: We don't know why we survived and the others didn't. I've tried
to put some purpose to it, but I can't. 
KEVIN: I was wondering, Captain, when you and your ship would be
leaving. 
PICARD: I don't have an answer for that. A few hours ago, we
encountered a warship. Possibly the one which attacked you. We forced
it to leave the system but we were unable to affect it otherwise. It
could return. 
RISHON: Kevin, you said it had gone away. 
KEVIN: I guess I was wrong. Don't worry. It didn't hurt us before, it
won't hurt us now. 
PICARD: Do you know that for a fact, Kevin? 
KEVIN: No, but I don't enjoy seeing my wife frightened. We've told you
time and time again, we don't know why we were spared. 
PICARD: But there had to be some reason. In some way, you were
different from the other colonists. Your
geographical location, your philosophical beliefs, the colour of your
eyes. In some way you were set apart from them. 
KEVIN: There was a difference. I'm a man of special conscience. While
the others were doing what they could, I chose not to fight. 
PICARD: Well that is your protected right. 
KEVIN: But I can assure you the attacking ship had no way of realising
this. I expected to die like all the others. There's no reason for you
and your ship to remain, Captain. We can manage without you. 
(Kevin leaves the room) 
RISHON: Kevin grieved for the others, Captain, but he did nothing. He
is a very gentle man. You must understand that. 
PICARD: What about you, Rishon? Is that how you feel? 
RISHON: I wanted to fight but I stayed with my husband. Well, Captain,
thank you again for the replicator. I'd better clean up now. 
PICARD: Before we leave, I ask you one more time to come to the ship.
For your own safety. 
RISHON: Captain, I am frightened but I can't leave Rana, even if it
means my life.

[Troi's quarters]

CRUSHER: I don't understand it. I've inhibited
almost all the activity of the neocortex and she continues to behave as
if she's hearing the music. We're going to have to shield her from all
outside stimuli by inducing coma.

[Bridge]

(Red alert) 
DATA: I have a positive identification, Commander. It is the vessel
that attacked us earlier. It is re-entering the system at high velocity
and is approaching Rana Four. 
RIKER: Give us a tight visual, Data. Is it my imagination or does it
look a lot meaner this time? Shields up. Weapons ready. 
(Picard and Worf enter) 
RIKER: Our friend is back. 
PICARD: I'm not surprised. Mister Worf, open a hailing frequency. Warn
the vessel to stay clear of the planet. 
WORF: Aye, sir, but they are already within firing range. 
(Three massive blasts of energy hit the Enterprise) 
WORF: Shields are down. Captain, they hit us with four hundred
gigawatts of particle energy. 
PICARD: Damage? 
WORF: Superficial, but I'm having trouble reassembling the shields.
(another hit) Shields down. There is thermal damage to the hull. 
DATA: The warship is capable of striking us with far more powerful
bursts. 
WESLEY: They're manoeuvring to come between the Enterprise and Rana
Four. 
PICARD: Number One, we have been exemplary in our patience. 
RIKER: Lieutenant Worf, fire phasers on full with a simultaneous spread
of torpedoes. 
(He does so) 
DATA: The vessel appears undamaged, sir. Its defences are apparently
able to absorb incoming matter and energy. 
RIKER: Commence rapid fire with all weapons on full. 
(The enemy returns fire and things go bang this time) 
WORF: Shields down. Internal damage. Weapon systems control has been
lost. 
RIKER: Riker to Sickbay. Medical assistance to the Bridge! 
MEDIC [OC]: On our way, Commander. 
PICARD: Mister Crusher, move the Enterprise out of range of the
attacking vessel. 
WESLEY: Aye, sir. 
PICARD: Mister Worf? 
WORF: The vessel has terminated its pursuit. It is assuming an orbit
around Rana Four. 
RIKER: Kevin and Rishon? 
PICARD: We can't help them. But it's my guess they're in no danger.

