RIKER LAFORGE WORF PICARD RISHON CRUSHER DATA KEVIN
booby cup age didn eighty years thermal individual piece

[Transporter room]

PICARD: Good luck, Number One. 
(Riker, Crusher, La Forge, Data and Worf are the away team) 
RIKER: Energise. 
[Lawn]

(A nicely kept square in front of an L-shaped
futuristic house. Edged with trees to stop us seeing the ruined
countryside) 
RIKER: Geordi, what can you tell me? 
LAFORGE: The house is a typical settlement structure with adaptations.
Its thermal properties all seem to conform to known materials. 
DATA: If there are indicators as to why this particular area has
remained intact, I cannot detect them. 
RIKER: Worf, the interior of the house? 
WORF: There is one individual is located at the south end of the house,
the other toward the north. There is a weapon, a low-yield phaser,
nonfunctional, in proximity to the front-room individual. 
RIKER: I guess a frontal assault is unwarranted. Stay here. I think
I'll try an old-fashioned knock on the door. 
LAFORGE: Commander, wait. There's something concealed under the surface

(too late. Riker has triggered an booby trap and is now hanging upside
down from a pole. An
elderly man challenges them) 
KEVIN: What are you doing there? This is private property Who are you
people? 
RIKER: I'm Commander William Riker of the USS Enterprise. Crewmembers.
May I comet down and approach you? 
KEVIN: You leave him right where he is. 
WORF: Should I incapacitate him, Commander? 
RIKER: No. We're a rescue party. We picked up your colony's distress
call and we came as fast as we could. 
(a small elderly but spry woman rushes out) 
RISHON: Kevin! Kevin, what are you doing? Can't you see they're here to
help us? Can't you see they're human? 
KEVIN: Go back in the house, Rishon. This could be some kind of a
trick. 
RISHON: We'd almost given up hope. We were afraid maybe the whole
Federation had been attacked. 
(in the background, Riker is released from the snare) 
CRUSHER: What about the colony? Do you know of any other survivors? 
RISHON: It's been days since we've seen or heard from anybody. No,
don't. Don't tell me that we're the only ones. 
KEVIN: They came in a spaceship so big you could see it in orbit. They
took our world apart piece by piece. 
RIKER: Who? 
KEVIN: We don't know. We never saw their faces. 
RIKER: You don't know where they came from? Where they are now? 
KEVIN: I guess they've gone away. 
CRUSHER: Oh, I'm sorry. I'm only performing a physical. Could I have
your names, please, just for the record. 
RISHON: I'm Rishon Uxbridge and this is my husband Kevin. 
DATA: Botanists. Originally from the aquatic city New Martim Vaz in
Earth's Atlantic Ocean. Residents of the Rana Four colony for five
years. You, ma'am, are eighty two years of age and a composer of Tao
classical music. You, sir, are eighty five years of age and a
specialist in symbiotic plant life. You have been married for fifty
three years. I memorised the colony register on the way to Rana Four,
in the event that such information would be needed. 
KEVIN: Is something wrong? 
RIKER: With your permission, I'd like to look inside of the house. 
KEVIN: Why? What could interest you in there? 
RIKER: Mister Uxbridge, as far as we've been able to determine, you and
your wife and this house are all that survived that attack. That's was
either a bizarre coincidence or by design, and I don't favour the
coincidence theory. 
KEVIN: Are you saying that we were kept alive intentionally? 
RIKER: Yes. 
KEVIN: I don't understand. You don't think Rishon and I did something
that merited survival, do you? I mean, betrayed the others? 
RIKER: I'm not accusing you of anything, Mister Uxbridge. The attacking
force spared you for some reason. We'd like to know why. Now, may I go
inside? 
[Living room]

RISHON: I'll make everyone a nice cup of tea. We
have lovely tea here on Rana. It grows wild nearly every (realises) 
WORF: Sir. May I say your attempt to hold the away team at bay with a
nonfunctioning weapon was an act of unmitigated gall. 
KEVIN: Didn't fool you, huh? 
WORF: I admire gall. 
(Data is looking at ornaments on a shelf) 
RISHON: Go ahead, pick it up. It's a music box. It's been in my family
for generations. 
(As Data watches the little man and woman dance, Troi hears the tune in
her quarters on the Enterprise) 
RIKER: There's nothing unusual about this house, except the fact that
it's here. What about them? 
CRUSHER: They're in reasonably good health. Both show signs of stress,
which is understandable considering what they've been through. 
RIKER: Somehow, they're different. Let's get back to the ship. We'll
take them with us. Excuse, Mrs. Uxbridge. We'd better return to our
ship now. 
RISHON: But I haven't finished fixing your tea, Commander. 
RIKER: I'm sorry, but we're finished here. Now, I can allow time for
you and Kevin to pack. 
RISHON: What do you mean, pack? 
KEVIN: You're not thinking of taking us with you, are you? 
RIKER: Surely you don't want to remain here? How can you take care of
yourselves? 
RISHON: Kevin, I can't leave my home. Don't let them do this to us. 
KEVIN: No one's going to make us leave. 
RIKER: You'll be protected on our ship. You could still be in danger
here on Rana. 
KEVIN: Commander, we appreciate your concern but we're not going
anywhere. We'll manage. We always have. 
RIKER: All right. I can't make you come with us. (takes off his comm.
badge) Are you familiar with one of these? We'll be in the system for
the next several days at least. If you reconsider, please contact us. 
RISHON: We'll be fine, Commander. We have each other.

