RIKER LAFORGE WORF PICARD WESLEY RISHON DATA KEVIN
telepathic recreated created away attack assumption know believe condition

[Bridge]

WORF: Sir, sensors indicate no spacecraft in the
vicinity of Rana Four. But, Captain 
PICARD: Forget your previous error, Mister Worf. There is no way you
could have prevented it. 
DATA: Captain, the Uxbridge house is coming into transporter range. 
PICARD: Mister Worf, will you accompany me to the Transporter Room? You
have the Bridge, Number One. 
RIKER: Captain, I think you should reconsider. The warship has come
after us twice. It could come back. 
PICARD: I disagree, Number One. I don't think it knows we're here. I
think it believes that it has run us off for good. However, that will
all change once I'm back on board. 
RIKER: Sir? 
PICARD: It's protecting Kevin and Rishon. It responds to their wishes.
Indirectly or directly, I'm not sure, but
that's what I'm going to put to the test.

[Living room]

(Kevin and Rishon are dancing to the music box) 
PICARD: Celebrating? 
KEVIN: What are you doing here? What do you want? 
PICARD: This is the second time that you have shown surprise at my
appearance, Kevin. The first time was understandable, but now? Unless
it is because you never expected to see me again. 
KEVIN: Why do you keep interfering with our lives, Captain? 
PICARD: It is not my intention to interfere. Only to help you and
Rishon. 
KEVIN: Then please, leave us alone. 
PICARD: I promise you that when I leave this house I will never set
foot in it again. But the Enterprise will remain in orbit over the
planet. 
RISHON: Why? 
PICARD: To protect you. 
KEVIN: That's not necessary. I thought you understood. 
PICARD: It is necessary. You're in great danger. A warship has
returned. 
RISHON: Kevin! 
KEVIN: He's lying, Rishon. 
PICARD: We have fought a pitched battle with it, and lost. Many of my
crew have been injured including a woman who's mind is slowly being
destroyed by telepathic manipulation. 
RISHON: No. Please no. 
KEVIN: This is a form of intimidation. I have my rights. 
PICARD: Your rights? What about Rishon? Is she in favour of being here
left here? Come to the Enterprise. Let me take you where you'll be
safe. 
RISHON: No. I can't leave Kevin. 
KEVIN: I'm staying. She's safe here with me. in this house. 
PICARD: Why are you safe?. Why is this house a sanctuary? Does it have
to do with you? With your refusal to fight? Tell me this. If Rishon
were in danger, would you kill to save her life? 
KEVIN: No, not for her. Not for anyone. I will not kill. 
RISHON: Please stop hurting him. Captain, leave our house. 
PICARD: It is my sworn duty to protect you. The Enterprise will remain
in orbit around Rana Four as long as the two of you are alive.

[Bridge]

PICARD: Number One, an update, please. 
RIKER: Little change, Captain. Our shields are still inoperable. We
have partial control of our weapons, and I've doubled the repair crews.

DATA: The warship is approaching from high orbit. It is very close
three hundred thousand kilometres distant. 
RIKER: How is that possible? Is something wrong with the sensors? 
PICARD: That's no concern, Number One. It's here and it's precisely on
schedule. 
DATA: The vessel has altered its course to a direct intercept with the
Enterprise. 
RIKER: Worf, arm phasers and photon torpedoes. Prepare to fire. 
PICARD: Belay those orders, Mister Worf. 
DATA: The vessel is now within twenty thousand kilometres of the
Enterprise and closing. 
PICARD: Let it come, let it come. Activate the main viewer. 
WORF: Evasive action, sir? 
PICARD: The Enterprise will hold its position, Mister Worf. 
WORF: Weapons, sir? 
PICARD: On my orders, not before. 
DATA: The vessel is entering a low orbit around Rana Four. It appears
it is preparing to fire at the planet, Captain. 
PICARD: Understood. 
DATA: My calculations indicate that its target is the house of Kevin
and Rishon Uxbridge. 
PICARD: There will be no interference from us, Mister Data. 
WORF: The house has been obliterated. 
PICARD: Scan for survivors. 
WORF: There are no survivors. 
PICARD: Mister Worf, prepare a photon torpedo. Fire at the enemy vessel
when ready. 
WORF: Aye, sir. 
(And a single photon does what the salvo could not do earlier.
Ka-Boom)
PICARD: Number One, what reason does the Enterprise have for remaining
at Rana? 
RIKER: The unknown vessel has been destroyed. The Uxbridges have been
destroyed. There's no reason for the Enterprise to remain. 
PICARD: Good. Helm, move us into a higher orbit so that we may keep the
surface of the planet under surveillance. 
WESLEY: Aye, sir. But, Captain, what are we watching for? 
PICARD: Anything. Everything. I'll be in my Ready room if I'm needed.
That will be all for now.

[Ready room]

PICARD: Come. 
RIKER: Captain, may I speak with you? 
PICARD: It's my pleasure, Number One. 
RIKER: We've been observing the planet very carefully for three hours.
We've seen nothing. I have the feeling you're waiting for something to
happen. 
PICARD: Your Captain is acting on an assumption, Will, and I'm not sure
what the result will be, or even that my assumption is correct. We
found two people alive in a house on a devastated planet. But there was
only one survivor of the war on Rana Four.

[Bridge]

WORF: Why is it we maintain watch on a planet that
is now totally dead? 
LAFORGE: Bridge to Captain Picard. You had better come see this. 
(Picard and Riker enter) 
LAFORGE: Captain. Commander. The house is back. Trees, grass,
everything. Happened right in front of us. 
PICARD: Mister Worf, do you see any survivors? 
WORF: I detect two life forms inside the house. It appears Kevin and
Rishon were not destroyed. 
PICARD: Helm, take us within transporter range. We're going to beam
them aboard directly onto the Bridge. 
DATA: But, Captain, will they not protest? 
PICARD: Let them. 
(Kevin and Rishon appear) 
PICARD: My apologies if I interrupted a waltz. 
RISHON: Why have you brought us here against our will? 
PICARD: I want to end the suffering of one of my crewmembers. 
RISHON: I don't understand. 
PICARD: Kevin does. He's the cause. At first I couldn't understand why
your house survived the holocaust when the others hadn't.
Then it occurred to me. It had been destroyed. That dwelling, where you
served me tea, where you danced your waltzes, is a reproduction. Real
to the touch but capable of being created, destroyed, and created. All
on a whim. 
RISHON: You're joking with us, Captain. Can't you see this is hurting
my husband? 
KEVIN: Rishon. Hear what he has to say. 
PICARD: More than anything else, you wanted the Enterprise away from
Rana, because the house, the plot of land, your very existence, were
incongruities that you were not prepared to explain. The warship,
another recreation, tried to chase us away twice, and failed. But when
I came to your house the second time, I provided you with the only
condition that would make the Enterprise leave. Your deaths. You did
your best to satisfy that condition. 
KEVIN: I'm deeply sorry about the woman. I will help her. But I must
know what you intend to do with me afterwards. 
PICARD: You'll be taken to the nearest starbase and held responsible
for the attack on the Enterprise, and possibly the deaths of eleven
thousand people. 
RISHON: No. He never killed anyone. 
KEVIN: The destruction of the planet happened just as I told you. 
PICARD: But you haven't told us the whole story. How it ended. The part
about Rishon. 
RISHON: What is he saying? 
PICARD: Rishon, I can touch you. I can hear your voice, I can smell
your perfume. In every respect you are a real person with your own mind
and beliefs, but you do not exist. You died along with the others,
defending the colony. He recreated you, just as he recreated the house.

(Rishon vanishes) 
PICARD: You are the only living thing that really exists on Rana. And
though you look human, you're not. 
(Kevin turns briefly into a creature of light, then disappears) 
LAFORGE: He's in the turbolift. 
PICARD: Let him go. 
WORF: Captain, he is dangerous! 
PICARD: So dangerous, Mister Worf, that he could have destroyed us in
an instant had he wished. Track him. Alert the crew to keep clear of
hm. I want him to understand we mean him no harm 
RIKER: Will he return to the planet? 
PICARD: If he is the creature of conscience I believe him to be, he has
someone to help first.

