TROI LAFORGE WORF PICARD RIKER WESLEY DATA

[Corridor]

WORF: Captain, a search of the Ranian system has
determined that the hostile force that attacked this planet is no
longer present. 
PICARD: I remember a Starfleet admiral once saying the same thing about
some renegade Andorians in the Triangulum system. It turns out that
they had dismantled their ship and hidden it. 
WORF: Those Andorians did not have to contend with someone of my
thoroughness. I will stake my reputation.

[Troi's quarters]

TROI: Don't listen. Think of something else. Stop!
Please, stop! 
(The doorbell chimes and she pulls herself together) 
TROI: Yes? 
(Picard enters) 
PICARD: I was concerned. I came to see if I could be of any help. 
TROI: I'm fine. There's nothing wrong. I'm just tired, that's all. 
PICARD: Now, I may not have your gifts at reading emotions, Counsellor,
but I can tell when someone is in pain and hiding it. 
TROI: It's so silly. I hear music. In my mind. Music that won't stop. 
PICARD: Perhaps it's a symptom of fatigue. We've all been inflicted one
time or another with that melody that won't go away. 
TROI: No, it's deeper than that. The song doesn't stops for an instant.
It plays in perfect clarity from beginning to end over and over again.
I don't even know what song it is. I never heard it before. 
PICARD: When did this start? 
TROI: A few hours ago, while the away team was on the surface. I was
trying to, I was thinking of Rishon and Kevin. 
PICARD: Rishon and Kevin? And? 
TROI: I can't explain it, Captain. They're elusive. They're, I'm sorry 
PICARD: Well, try and rest. Take the necessary sleep inducements if you
have to. 
(Red alert sounds)

[Bridge]

RIKER: Data, give us a visual. Magnification factor
fifty. 
(a dagger shaped warship comes into view) 
WESLEY: Look at the size of that! 
(Picard enters) 
PICARD: Now where did that come from? 
RIKER: Apparently it was riding a Lagrange point, hiding behind Rana
Four's furthest moon. 
DATA: Our vehicle classification index can put no identity to it. Its
design is completely foreign. 
RIKER: But that's our boy. Approximately five times our mass and
carrying enough armament to pulverize a planet. 
PICARD: Lieutenant? 
WORF: I, er, cannot explain this, Captain. 
RIKER: It's heading for the planet. 
PICARD: Hailing frequencies. 
WORF: Open. 
PICARD: Mister Data, ask them to identify themselves and match our
orbit. 
DATA: They have received the message, Captain, but are ignoring it. 
PICARD: Maximum shields, ready all weapon systems. 
WORF: Aye, sir. 
RIKER: It's assuming an attack posture. Don't be surprised if 
(Boom) 
WORF: The vessel is firing jacketed streams of positrons and
antiprotons. Equivalent firepower, forty megawatts. Shields are
holding. (Boom, boom) Again, forty megawatts. No damage. 
RIKER: If that's the best they can do, this should last about five
minutes. 
PICARD: Mister Worf, let's raise our voice a little. Fire phasers. Just
a warning shot. Mister Data, invite them to stand to. 
(One feeble phaser shot and the ship high-tails it away) 
DATA: The vessel has assumed a position outside of the Rana system, and
it is rapidly increasing velocity. 
PICARD: Helm, initiate pursuit. 
WESLEY: Aye, sir. The vessel has reached warp two and continues on a
steady acceleration curve. We're not getting any closer, Commander. 
RIKER: Give us a superior curve, Mister Crusher. 
WESLEY: Warp three. Warp four. The warship continues to match our curve
simultaneously point for point. Warp four point five. Warp five. Warp
five point five. 
RIKER: Riker to La Forge. Give us everything you can to close the gap,
Geordi. 
LAFORGE [OC]: Yes, sir. 
