PICARD [OC] RIKER BARRON DATA [OC] NURIA PICARD TROI LIKO FENTO HALI CRUSHER DATA OJI
good built far floods lounge cure taught believe speak

[Bridge]

RIKER: Lock sensors on Nuria. 
DATA: Locked on. We can beam Nuria aboard at will. 
PICARD: Data, when sensors indicate she's alone, beam her directly to
transporter room one. 
DATA: Aye, sir.

[Transporter room]

PICARD: Ensign Hoy? 
DATA [OC]: Captain, Nuria is alone. 
PICARD: I'll handle this. 
(Hoy leaves, and Picard beams Nuria aboard) 
PICARD: Nuria, don't be afraid. No one is going to harm you. 
NURIA: Who? 
PICARD: I am Jean Luc Picard. 
(Nuria falls to her knees, face down) 
PICARD: Please, get up. Get up. You must not kneel to me. 
NURIA: You do not wish it? 
PICARD: I do not deserve it. Look at me. Look at me. Feel the warmth of
my hand, the rhythm of my pulse. I'm not a supreme being. I'm flesh and
blood, like you. 
NURIA: Not like me. 
PICARD: Like you. Different in appearance, yes. But we are both living
beings. We are born, we grow, we live and we die. In all the ways that
matter, we are alike. 
NURIA: But you are the Picard! 
PICARD: There is something I want you to see. 
(The doors open and she jumps back) 
NURIA: What a wondrous place. Even the walls obey your command. 
PICARD: Wondrous, yes, but not miraculous. The doors merely work
differently from the ones you know.

[Observation lounge]

NURIA: That is my home? 
PICARD: Seen from far, far above. 
NURIA: Yet we do not fall. I never imagined I would see the clouds from
the other side. Your powers are truly boundless. 
PICARD: Nuria, your people live in huts. Was it always so? 
NURIA: No. We have found remnants of tools in caves. Our ancestors must
have lived there. 
PICARD: So why do you now live in huts? 
NURIA: Huts are better. Caves are dark and wet. 
PICARD: If huts are better, why did you once live in caves? 
NURIA: The most reasonable explanation would be that at one time we
didn't know how to make huts. 
PICARD: Just as at one time you did not know how to weave cloth, how to
make a bow. 
NURIA: That would be reasonable. 
PICARD: Someone invented a hut. Someone invented a bow, who taught
others, who taught their children, who built a stronger hut, built a
better bow, who taught their children. Now, Nuria, suppose one of your
cave dwelling ancestors could see you as you are today. What would she
think? 
NURIA: I don't know. 
PICARD: Put yourself in her place. You see, she cannot kill a hornbuck
at a great distance. You can. You have a power she lacks. 
NURIA: Only because I have a bow. 
PICARD: She's never seen a bow. It doesn't exist in her world. To you,
it's a simple tool. To her, it's magic. 
NURIA: I suppose she might think so. 
PICARD: Now, how would she react to you? 
NURIA: I think she would fear me. 
PICARD: Just as you fear me. 
NURIA: I do not fear you any longer. 
PICARD: Good. That's good. You see, my people once lived in caves. And
then we learned to build huts and, in time, to build ships like this
one.
NURIA: Perhaps one day, my people will travel above the skies. 
PICARD: Of that, I have absolutely no doubt.

[Assembly hall]

(A storm is making itself heard) 
LIKO: It's not the season for lightning. It must be a warning. 
FENTO: We've had storms like this before. 
OJI: Not like this one. 
LIKO: It must mean something. The Picard is angry with us. He blames us
for letting Palmer escape. 
FENTO: Liko, we don't know that the Overseer is responsible for this
storm. 
LIKO: Will he also send floods? My wife died in last year's floods.
Will we all die now? We must find Nuria.

[Ready room]

NURIA: Picard, you have shown me wonders I could
never have imagined, and I am grateful beyond words. Might I request
something for my people? 
PICARD: You are indeed a leader. 
NURIA: You have shown me such generosity. I wish my people could share
in it. Six Mintakans died in a flood last winter. Four of them
children. Would you bring them back to life? 
PICARD: That is not in my power. 
NURIA: Why? You restored Liko's life. Did the six who died offend you
in some way? Did I offended you? Should I have ordered the death of
Troi? Please, you must tell me if there's anything I can do to change
your mind. 
PICARD: I've failed to get through to you, haven't I? Despite all my
efforts. 
[Assembly hall]

OJI: Nuria can't be found. No one knows where she's
gone. 
LIKO: Hali, any sign of Palmer or Riker? 
HALI: They have escaped us. We searched everywhere. 
OJI: What do we do now, father? 
LIKO: We must do as the Picard wishes. Punish those responsible. 
FENTO: Nuria would not allow us to 
LIKO: Nuria isn't here. We can't wait. 
(Liko gestures to Hali for his bow)

[Sickbay]

CRUSHER: Crusher to Picard. I think we're going to
lose Warren. 
PICARD [OC]: On my way. 
BARRON: I'm here, Mary. 
(Picard and Nuria enter) 
CRUSHER: Prepare two cc's of norep. 
(but Mary Warren gives up the struggle to breathe) 
CRUSHER: I'm sorry. 
(Crusher and Barron leave, and Nuria approaches the death bed) 
NURIA: Picard, you could not save her? 
PICARD: No. 
NURIA: You do have limits. You are not masters of life and death. 
PICARD: No, we are not. We can cure many diseases and we can repair
injuries, we can even extend life. But for all our knowledge, all our
advances, we are just as mortal as you are. We're just as powerless to
prevent the inevitable. 
NURIA: You are a remarkable people, but you are not superior beings. My
people must be made to understand that.

[Assembly hall]

TROI: Liko, you don't want to kill me. 
LIKO: I have no choice. I must do as the Picard wishes. 
TROI: Are you sure you know what he wants? That's the problem with
believing in a supernatural being. Trying to determine what he wants. 
LIKO: We must do something. 
OJI: But what if we do the wrong thing, father? 
LIKO: Picard, we need your guidance. Is it your wish that this woman
should die? Answer us. Speak. 
(Picard and Nuria enter) 
PICARD: Liko! 
LIKO: The Picard. The Overseer has come. 
PICARD: No. Liko. Liko, I am a man. I am not the Overseer. I am a
traveller from a faraway land. Nothing more. 
LIKO: But you have restored my life. I am your servant. 
PICARD: You are no one's servant, Liko. I neither desire your obedience
nor your worship. 
NURIA: Picard speaks the truth. I have visited his people. I have seen
how they live and how they die. When death takes one of their loved
ones, they are as helpless as we are. 
LIKO: Then how was I brought back to life? 
NURIA: Liko, you were not dead. Picard's people have a knowledge that
we lack. They are able to heal wounds that we cannot. 
LIKO: No. No. He can bring back the dead. Show them, Picard. You can
bring my wife back to me. 
PICARD: I cannot. 
LIKO: Why? Why won't you do this for me? Have I failed you in some way?
Are you angry with me? 
PICARD: I am not angry with you. 
LIKO: Then I beg you, bring her back to me. I will give you my life in
exchange. Please, take back what you gave me. Give it to her. Let her
live! 
PICARD: It is beyond my power. 
LIKO: Nothing is beyond your power! You are the Overseer. I will prove
it! 
(He aims the arrow at Picard) 
NURIA: Liko! 
PICARD: If you believe I am all-powerful, then you cannot hurt me. If,
however, I am telling the truth and I am mortal, you will kill me. But
if the only proof you will believe is my death, then shoot. 
NURIA: Liko, don't do it! 
OJI: Father, no! 
(Oji jolts Liko's arm enough to deflect the arrow into Picard's
shoulder. Nuria holds up her blood-stained hand to
Liko and he bursts into tears)

Captain's log, supplemental. Doctor Crusher has
repaired my injury with her usual skill. Mister La Forge will supervise
the dismantling of the observation post after I make one last visit to
Mintaka Three.

