RIKER NURIA PICARD TROI LIKO FENTO HALI CRUSHER DATA OJI

[Hillside]

(Liko is beamed down alone. He wakes up) 
LIKO: Oji? Oji? 
(She hears him) 
OJI: Father? 
LIKO: Here. Oji. 
OJI: Father! I thought I'd never see you again. When you and the woman
vanished, I was sure you were dead. 
LIKO: I think I was, but I was brought back to life. Oji, I awoke in an
incredible place and my wounds were gone. I had been healed. 
OJI: How is that possible? 
LIKO: Long ago, our people believed in beings with great powers. These
beings made the rains come, told the sun when to rise, they caused all
life to be born, to grow, to die. 
OJI: But those are just tales, father. Old superstitions. 
LIKO: But perhaps the beliefs of our ancestors are true. Nothing else
can explain what's happened. Everything is changed now, Oji. We must
tell the others.

[Observation lounge]

CRUSHER: Barron is stable, but Warren is still
critical. 
RIKER: Palmer is missing. A scan of the planet shows Mintakan life
forms only, no humans. However 
DATA: The area around the duck blind exhibits Karst topography.
Sinkholes, underground rivers, and caverns. And the rock strata contain
a high concentration of thallium compounds which may be obstructing our
sensor beams. 
PICARD: So if Palmer, in his delirium, fled into a cave, we may be
unable to detect his life signs? 
DATA: Correct, sir. 
CRUSHER: Captain, if he is still alive, he needs medical attention. We
must send an away team to locate him. 
TROI: But our presence must not interfere with the cultural development
of the Mintakans. 
PICARD: Agreed. Further contamination must be prevented. 
RIKER: I have a suggestion.

First officer's log, Stardate 43174.2. Counsellor
Troi and I are beaming down to Mintaka Three to locate Doctor Palmer
and to determine the extent of the cultural contamination. Doctor
Crusher has temporarily altered our features and skin
colour. She's also implanted subcutaneous communicators so that any
transmissions we receive will be inaudible to the Mintakans.

[Plain]

RIKER: Riker to Enterprise. Do you hear me? 
DATA [OC]: Perfectly, Commander. I will be monitoring you continuously.

TROI: Mintakan emotions are quite interesting. Like the Vulcans, they
have highly ordered minds. A very sensible people. For example,
Mintakan women precede their mates. It's a signal to other women. 
RIKER: This man's taken, get your own? 
TROI: Not precisely. More like, if you want his services, I'm the one
you have to negotiate with. 
RIKER: What kind of services? 
TROI: All kinds. 
RIKER: They are a sensible race.

[Assembly hall]

(Troi and Riker enter as Liko is telling his
experience to a grey-haired man) 
LIKO: I understand your skepticism. Had it not happened to me, I would
find it difficult to accept as well. 
OJI: But it did happen, just as we've said. 
LIKO: Fento, you know the legends better than anyone. Do they not speak
of beings like the kind I've seen? 
OJI: Who could vanish like smoke? 
FENTO: There are the stories of the Overseer who could appear and
disappear at will. 
LIKO: And couldn't this Overseer heal the dead? 
FENTO: He had supreme power, or so our ancestors believed. 
LIKO: I believe I have seen the Overseer. He is called the Picard. 
RIKER: Uh oh. 
TROI: His memory's intact. 
RIKER: The procedure didn't work. 
NURIA: (a woman) Liko, all this talk of supernatural beings. No one has
believed that for countless generations. Just as we no longer
believe the stars control our fates, or the spirits of the dead haunt
the living. 
LIKO: Nuria, I'm not saying all the old beliefs are true. But I did see
the Picard, and I was restored back to life. 
TROI: We are visitors. We've come to trade our cloth. May we speak? 
NURIA: Please do. We welcome outsiders. I am Nuria. 
TROI: I am Troi and this is Riker. You've had a very interesting dream.

LIKO: Dream? It was real! 
OJI: My father and I both witnessed these beings. 
TROI: If you are father and daughter, you may well have shared the same
dream. 
LIKO: That is not reasonable. 
RIKER: Is that any less reasonable than being magically transformed to
another place by the Picard? 
HALI: Nuria! 
(Two men carry in a human) 
LIKO: It has to be Palmer! The one the Picard wished to find. 
NURIA: Remarkable. You were speaking the truth. 
LIKO: The Picard will be pleased. 
(The villagers rush off and leave them) 
RIKER: Riker to Picard. 
PICARD [OC]: Go ahead, Number One. 
RIKER: We have a problem. 
[Sickbay]

PICARD: With the contamination? 
RIKER [OC]: It's worse than we suspected. 
