RIKER BARRON NURIA PICARD TROI LIKO FENTO DATA OJI

[Sickbay]

RIKER: Data, has Counsellor Troi beamed up? 
DATA [OC]: Negative, Commander. Sensors show she's in the midst of a
group of Mintakans. 
RIKER: Damn.

[Assembly hall]

(Fento is untied) 
NURIA: He is all right. Hali, find Riker and Palmer. 
LIKO: Why did you and Riker take Palmer from us? 
TROI: We did not take Palmer.

[Bridge]

TROI [OC]: We set him free. Riker and I do not
believe in these fables about an Overseer. 
LIKO [OC]: Don't you realise what you've done? You've angered the
Picard and we may all suffer for it. I know. I've seen him. He is
all-powerful. 
[Assembly hall]

LIKO: Fanto, weren't there stories about the
Overseer destroying those who offended him? 
FENTO: Stories, nothing more. 
NURIA: Liko, we'll get Palmer back. Riker was carrying him. They can't
have gone far. 
LIKO: Still, the Picard may blame us for letting Palmer escape. Perhaps
we should punish her. Let the Overseer know 
[Bridge]

LIKO [OC]: That she and Riker acted alone. 
[Assembly hall]

NURIA: We will keep Troi captive. 
LIKO: That's not enough. 
NURIA: You would have us harm her? 
LIKO: If it will hold off the Picard's anger, yes. I've seen how
powerful he is. 
NURIA: I am unwilling to hurt her needlessly. We will wait for Hali to
return. 
OJI: And if they don't find Palmer? 
NURIA: Then we may have to do as Liko suggests.

[Observation lounge]

PICARD: Doctor, you believe the Mintakans are
capable of harming Counsellor Troi? 
BARRON: They are not normally a violent people but these are
extraordinary circumstances. They're trying to comprehend what they
believe to be a god. 
PICARD: Recommendations? 
BARRON: The Mintakans wish to please the Overseer, but they can only
guess what he wants. They need a sign. 
PICARD: Are you suggesting? 
BARRON: You must go down to Mintaka Three. 
RIKER: Masquerading as a god? 
PICARD: Absolutely out of the question. The Prime Directive 
BARRON: Has already been violated. The damage is done. All we can do
now is minimise it. 
PICARD: By sanctioning their false beliefs? 
BARRON: By giving them guidelines. Letting them know what the Overseer
expects of them. 
PICARD: Doctor Barron, I cannot, I will not, impose a set of
commandments on these people. To do so violates the very essence of the
Prime Directive. 
BARRON: Like it or not, we have rekindled the Mintakans' belief in the
Overseer. 
RIKER: And are you saying that this belief will eventually become a
religion? 
BARRON: It's inevitable. And without guidance, that religion could
degenerate into inquisitions, holy wars, chaos. 
PICARD: Horrifying. Doctor Barron, your report describes how rational
these people are. Millennia ago, they abandoned their belief in the
supernatural. Now you are asking me to sabotage that achievement, to
send them back into the Dark Ages of superstition and ignorance and
fear? No! We will find some way to undo the damage we've caused. Number
One, tell me about this group's leader. 
RIKER: Nuria. Exceptionally clear-minded, sensible. The Mintakans trust
her judgment. If we can convince her that you are not a god 
PICARD: She might be able to persuade the others. 
BARRON: And how do you propose to convince her? 
PICARD: She believes the Picard is a magical figure. I'm going to show
her how the magic works. I'm going to bring her aboard.

[Assembly hall]

DATA [OC]: Counsellor, sensors indicate five
Mintakans in your immediate vicinity. Four are motionless. The fifth is
eight meters away, proceeding south. Is Nuria one of these five? 
TROI: Mmm hmm.

