TROI JEREMY LAFORGE WORF PICARD MARLA [on monitor] JEREMY [OC] LAFORGE [OC] RIKER JEREMY [on monitor] DATA DAD [OC]
hit parent personal maybe angry knew question orphan love

[Ten forward]

DATA: Excuse me, sir. Am I intruding? 
RIKER: No, sit down. 
DATA: How well did you know Lieutenant Aster? 
RIKER: We spent some time together. Not very well. How well did you
know her? 
DATA: Why do you ask? 
RIKER: Well, you just asked me. 
DATA: But why do you ask the question? Since her death, I have been
asked several times to define how well I knew Lieutenant Aster. And I
heard you ask Wesley on the Bridge how well he knew Jeremy. Does the
question of familiarity have some bearing on death? 
RIKER: Do you remember how we all felt when Tasha died? 
DATA: I do not sense the same feelings of absence that I associate with
Lieutenant Yar, although I cannot say precisely why. 
RIKER: Just human nature, Data. 
DATA: Human nature, sir? 
RIKER: We feel a loss more intensely when it's a friend. 
DATA: But should not the feelings run as deep regardless of who has
died? 
RIKER: Maybe they should, Data. Maybe if we felt the loss of any life
as keenly as we felt the death of those close to us, human history
would be a lot less bloody. 
LAFORGE [OC]: La Forge to Riker 
RIKER: You're back, Geordi 
LAFORGE [OC]: Yes, sir, and we've brought back a souvenir. 
[Ready room]

LAFORGE: There are five more just like them. All
identical to the one that killed Lieutenant Aster. 
DATA: They employ a subspace proximity detonator. A normal tricorder
would never detect it. 
PICARD: How long would you say they've been there, Data? 
DATA: It comes from the time of the Koinonian Wars, sir. 
RIKER: Did you find them all, Geordi? 
LAFORGE: Yeah, but, well, it seemed like they were left there to be
found. 
PICARD: Left by whom? There are no indications of life on this planet. 
LAFORGE: I don't know, Captain, but it was pretty obvious that they'd
been recently pulled out of the ground and defused.

[Room]

WORF: I have made my report to the Captain. 
TROI: I'm more interested in how you feel about what happened. I sense
great anger. 
WORF: I cannot seek revenge against an enemy who's turned to dust
centuries ago. Her death was senseless. The last
victim of a forgotten war. 
TROI: Go on. 
WORF: There's nothing more to be said. 
TROI: A person died under your command. It may happen again. If you
can't learn to release the anger and the guilt, to talk about it 
WORF: A leader must stand alone. As Captain Picard does. 
TROI: Captain Picard talks to me. 
WORF: Then may I seek your counsel about my plan to make the R'uustai
with the boy. 
TROI: The Bonding. 
WORF: It is my right. 
TROI: It's very generous, Worf, but he's not a Klingon child. He has
different sensibilities. 
WORF: He is an orphan. I am an orphan. He will understand. 
TROI: Right now, there isn't much he can understand. He's holding all
his feelings inside. Children often feel they must be true to the
memory of a lost parent. If you offer affection to them too soon they
can feel guilty returning that affection. As if they're betraying the
love of the parent. 
WORF: I only wish to honour his mother. 
TROI: I know. And I understand this means a great deal to you. But you
must be prepared. He's very angry too, but his anger is deep inside
him. When he touches it, it will strike out in many directions,
including yours. Be with him. Talk to him. But don't rush this. When
he's ready, we'll know.

[Jeremy's quarters]

(Jeremy is watching family movies on a personal
monitor) 
JEREMY [OC]: Captain Patches, an alien ship on the surface. What's it
made of, Captain. Oh, no, we've been hit, Captain. We're going down. 
DAD [OC]: That was great. Now, let's get a shot of mom. 
MARLA [on monitor]: What are you doing? I'll turn your lens into
(something) shards. Go away! Go away! Go away! Over there. Over there. 
(And the camera swings round to young Jeremy holding a kitten) 
JEREMY [on monitor]: Patches. Captain Patches is coming in for a
landing on the sofa! 
(The doorbell chimes) 
JEREMY [OC]: Oh, no, he's going to crash. 
WORF: Jeremy Aster? I'm Lieutenant Worf. May I enter? 
JEREMY: You were in command of the away team. 
WORF: Yes. I was with Lieutenant Aster, your mother, when she died. 
JEREMY: You're a Klingon, aren't you. 
WORF: Yes. 
JEREMY: We studied about Klingons in school. 
WORF: What did they teach you about us? 
JEREMY: You used to be our enemies. 
WORF: Did they also teach you that every Klingon hopes to die in the
line of duty as your mother did? In my tradition, we do not grieve the
loss of the body. We celebrate the releasing of the spirit. 
JEREMY: I understand death. They teach us all about it. 
WORF: Jeremy Aster, we may both understand it, but we must bring
meaning to your mother's death. Perhaps we can do it together.

