TROI JEREMY LAFORGE WORF PICARD MARLA [on monitor] JEREMY [OC] RIKER RIKER [OC] JEREMY [on monitor] DATA DAD [OC]
life parent joy orphan affection picking war celebrate ground

[Ready room]

LAFORGE: There are five more just like them. All
identical to the one that killed Lieutenant Aster. 
DATA: They employ a subspace proximity detonator. A normal tricorder
would never detect it. 
PICARD: How long would you say they've been there, Data? 
DATA: It comes from the time of the Koinonian Wars, sir. 
RIKER: Did you find them all, Geordi? 
LAFORGE: Yeah, but, well, it seemed like they were left there to be
found. 
PICARD: Left by whom? There are no indications of life on this planet. 
LAFORGE: I don't know, Captain, but it was pretty obvious that they'd
been recently pulled out of the ground and defused.

[Room]

WORF: I have made my report to the Captain. 
TROI: I'm more interested in how you feel about what happened. I sense
great anger. 
WORF: I cannot seek revenge against an enemy who's turned to dust
centuries ago. Her death was senseless. The last
victim of a forgotten war. 
TROI: Go on. 
WORF: There's nothing more to be said. 
TROI: A person died under your command. It may happen again. If you
can't learn to release the anger and the guilt, to talk about it 
WORF: A leader must stand alone. As Captain Picard does. 
TROI: Captain Picard talks to me. 
WORF: Then may I seek your counsel about my plan to make the R'uustai
with the boy. 
TROI: The Bonding. 
WORF: It is my right. 
TROI: It's very generous, Worf, but he's not a Klingon child. He has
different sensibilities. 
WORF: He is an orphan. I am an orphan. He will understand. 
TROI: Right now, there isn't much he can understand. He's holding all
his feelings inside. Children often feel they must be true to the
memory of a lost parent. If you offer affection to them too soon they
can feel guilty returning that affection. As if they're betraying the
love of the parent. 
WORF: I only wish to honour his mother. 
TROI: I know. And I understand this means a great deal to you. But you
must be prepared. He's very angry too, but his anger is deep inside
him. When he touches it, it will strike out in many directions,
including yours. Be with him. Talk to him. But don't rush this. When
he's ready, we'll know.

[Jeremy's quarters]

(Jeremy is watching family movies on a personal
monitor) 
JEREMY [OC]: Captain Patches, an alien ship on the surface. What's it
made of, Captain. Oh, no, we've been hit, Captain. We're going down. 
DAD [OC]: That was great. Now, let's get a shot of mom. 
MARLA [on monitor]: What are you doing? I'll turn your lens into
(something) shards. Go away! Go away! Go away! Over there. Over there. 
(And the camera swings round to young Jeremy holding a kitten) 
JEREMY [on monitor]: Patches. Captain Patches is coming in for a
landing on the sofa! 
(The doorbell chimes) 
JEREMY [OC]: Oh, no, he's going to crash. 
WORF: Jeremy Aster? I'm Lieutenant Worf. May I enter? 
JEREMY: You were in command of the away team. 
WORF: Yes. I was with Lieutenant Aster, your mother, when she died. 
JEREMY: You're a Klingon, aren't you. 
WORF: Yes. 
JEREMY: We studied about Klingons in school. 
WORF: What did they teach you about us? 
JEREMY: You used to be our enemies. 
WORF: Did they also teach you that every Klingon hopes to die in the
line of duty as your mother did? In my tradition, we do not grieve the
loss of the body. We celebrate the releasing of the spirit. 
JEREMY: I understand death. They teach us all about it. 
WORF: Jeremy Aster, we may both understand it, but we must bring
meaning to your mother's death. Perhaps we can do it together.

[Ready room]

PICARD: Come. Counsellor, how's the boy? 
TROI: He's being very brave. 
PICARD: Good. 
TROI: No, he has to get past brave. He's very angry and he has to learn
how to express that anger before he can really say goodbye to his
mother. 
PICARD: How can we help? 
TROI: Well, I've asked Beverly if we might get Wesley to talk to Jeremy
about his father's death. The one unusual element is Worf. 
PICARD: Oh? 
TROI: In many ways he's suffering as badly as the boy. He wishes to
involve Jeremy in a Klingon ceremony called R'uustai, the Bonding 
PICARD: I know of that. Perhaps it will be helpful to both of them. 
TROI: I don't think Jeremy's ready to accept Worf right now. Perhaps
later, but it will have to be handled most delicately. 
PICARD: As you always do. I break the unpleasant news and there my
responsibility ends, but you, you have to stay with them through the
entire grieving process. 
TROI: We deal with our pain in many different ways, but over the years
I've discovered it is in our joy that the uniqueness of each individual
is revealed. If I can help a person back to a state of joy, well, my
role has its rewards. 
RIKER [OC]: Captain, we're picking up an energy field on the planet
surface. 
