LEAH PICARD RIKER COMPUTER LAFORGE

[Observation lounge]

PICARD: For what purpose? 
LAFORGE [OC]: Well, I've gone back to the beginning 
[Engineering]

LAFORGE: To the earliest construction entries of
the Enterprise. I've created a propulsion design model to assist me. 
[Observation lounge]

LAFORGE [OC]: I believe we're making progress. 
PICARD: Computer, reinstate holodeck three programme. 
COMPUTER: Holodeck three programme is reinstated. 
PICARD: Mister La Forge, your best suggestion in an hour. 
[Engineering]

PICARD [OC]: Picard out.

[Corridor]

LAFORGE: Computer, resume holodeck three programme.

COMPUTER: Enter when ready.

[Utopia Planitia Drafting room]

LEAH: There isn't much time left. 
LAFORGE: Somehow we have to generate enough energy to get out of here,
but we've got a booby trap that eats energy for breakfast. How do we
fool it, block it, shut it down, anything? Okay, we know for every
movement the Enterprise makes, there's a counter movement by the energy
field. Can we use that to our advantage somehow? 
LEAH: Maybe. There must be a time differential between the force and
counter force. If we can just make quick, continuing adjustments in the
linkups before the counterforce reacts, we might just be able to move
this bucket. 
LAFORGE: Yeah. Yes! (working at a console) Leah, you like Italian food?

LEAH: Like it? Wait till I make you my fungilli. 
LAFORGE: Okay. Fusion reactor uplink to navigation processor. 
(But it's not that straight forward) 
LAFORGE: But then we have to adjust the vector processor and the drive
coils. This is impossible. 
(Leah massages his shoulders) 
LAFORGE: Don't do that. 
LEAH: I'm sorry. I thought it would feel good. 
LAFORGE: I don't want to feel that good right now. What time is it? 
LEAH: Coming up on sixteen hundred hours. 
LAFORGE: God, what am I supposed to tell the Captain? It's possible and
yet it's not possible. Everything we've done says we can't adjust that
fast, but if we could, it might work. 
LEAH: I could do it. 
LAFORGE: Data couldn't even do it. It'll take a hundred, maybe even a
thousand adjustments every second. How are you going to do it? It's
humanly impossible. 
LEAH: I'm not human. 
LAFORGE: You mean the computer could do it. 
(Picard enters) 
LAFORGE: Captain. Captain, this is a holographic simulation of one of
the propulsion experts who designed the Enterprise engines. Leah
Brahms. We've, I've been examining the force-counter force response
times, trying to see if we could create linkage at maximum power. 
PICARD: And? 
LAFORGE: There's a chance we could manoeuvre out of this trap if we
turn the ship over to the computer. 
PICARD: What kind of chance? 
LAFORGE: I don't know yet, but we could programme it and try it out on
a few simulated runs. 
PICARD: And this is the only way? 
LAFORGE: I think so, sir.

[Ready room]

PICARD: Come. 
RIKER: Any word from La Forge? 
PICARD: He's come up with something that may give us a chance, if we
agree to stay out of it. He proposes to turn total control of the ship
over to the computer because it is capable of making quicker
adjustments than any human being. 
RIKER: Computers have always impressed me with their ability to take
orders. I'm not nearly as convinces of their ability to creatively give
them. 
PICARD: You know, Number One, you missed something not playing with
model ships. They were the source of imaginary voyages, each holding a
treasure of adventures. Manning the earliest space craft, flying a
aeroplane with only one propeller to keep you in the sky. Can you
imagine that? Now the machines are flying us. 
