LEAH PICARD RIKER COMPUTER LAFORGE

[Utopia Planitia Drafting room]

LEAH: There isn't much time left. 
LAFORGE: Somehow we have to generate enough energy to get out of here,
but we've got a booby trap that eats energy for breakfast. How do we
fool it, block it, shut it down, anything? Okay, we know for every
movement the Enterprise makes, there's a counter movement by the energy
field. Can we use that to our advantage somehow? 
LEAH: Maybe. There must be a time differential between the force and
counter force. If we can just make quick, continuing adjustments in the
linkups before the counterforce reacts, we might just be able to move
this bucket. 
LAFORGE: Yeah. Yes! (working at a console) Leah, you like Italian food?

LEAH: Like it? Wait till I make you my fungilli. 
LAFORGE: Okay. Fusion reactor uplink to navigation processor. 
(But it's not that straight forward) 
LAFORGE: But then we have to adjust the vector processor and the drive
coils. This is impossible. 
(Leah massages his shoulders) 
LAFORGE: Don't do that. 
LEAH: I'm sorry. I thought it would feel good. 
LAFORGE: I don't want to feel that good right now. What time is it? 
LEAH: Coming up on sixteen hundred hours. 
LAFORGE: God, what am I supposed to tell the Captain? It's possible and
yet it's not possible. Everything we've done says we can't adjust that
fast, but if we could, it might work. 
LEAH: I could do it. 
LAFORGE: Data couldn't even do it. It'll take a hundred, maybe even a
thousand adjustments every second. How are you going to do it? It's
humanly impossible. 
LEAH: I'm not human. 
LAFORGE: You mean the computer could do it. 
(Picard enters) 
LAFORGE: Captain. Captain, this is a holographic simulation of one of
the propulsion experts who designed the Enterprise engines. Leah
Brahms. We've, I've been examining the force-counter force response
times, trying to see if we could create linkage at maximum power. 
PICARD: And? 
LAFORGE: There's a chance we could manoeuvre out of this trap if we
turn the ship over to the computer. 
PICARD: What kind of chance? 
LAFORGE: I don't know yet, but we could programme it and try it out on
a few simulated runs. 
PICARD: And this is the only way? 
LAFORGE: I think so, sir.

[Ready room]

PICARD: Come. 
RIKER: Any word from La Forge? 
PICARD: He's come up with something that may give us a chance, if we
agree to stay out of it. He proposes to turn total control of the ship
over to the computer because it is capable of making quicker
adjustments than any human being. 
RIKER: Computers have always impressed me with their ability to take
orders. I'm not nearly as convinces of their ability to creatively give
them. 
PICARD: You know, Number One, you missed something not playing with
model ships. They were the source of imaginary voyages, each holding a
treasure of adventures. Manning the earliest space craft, flying a
aeroplane with only one propeller to keep you in the sky. Can you
imagine that? Now the machines are flying us. 
[Utopia Planitia Drafting room]

COMPUTER: End simulation. Fatal exposure. 
LAFORGE: Computer, reduce thrust levels another four percent. Adjust
trajectory angle to compensate. Begin simulation again. 
LEAH: There you go. We got out. 
LAFORGE: Repeat simulation, same levels. 
COMPUTER: End simulation. Fatal exposure. 
LAFORGE: You see? Same variables, only this time the computer didn't
quite make it. 
(Red alert sounds) 
COMPUTER: Deflector shield failure. Lethal radiation levels. Fatal
exposure in twenty six minutes. 
LEAH: It might work, Geordi. 
LAFORGE: And it might not. I can't ask Captain Picard to turn the ship
over to a computer. 
LEAH: It's all we've got. 
PICARD [OC]: Picard to La Forge. 
LAFORGE: Captain. 
[Bridge]

LAFORGE [OC]: Two minutes. Give me just two
minutes. 
[Utopia Planitia Drafting room]

LAFORGE: There is another way, Captain. Two
minutes, please. 
[Bridge]

PICARD: Two minutes, Mister La Forge. Picard out.

[Utopia Planitia Drafting room]

LEAH: Geordi, there's no other way. 
LAFORGE: No, no, wait. Listen. Turn it completely around. Literally.
Come at it from the opposite direction. God, it's so simple it might
even work. Okay, computer, new simulation. 
