LEAH PICARD RIKER COMPUTER LAFORGE

[Corridor]

LAFORGE: Ready, computer? 
COMPUTER: Holodeck three programme is ready.

[Utopia Planitia Drafting room]

(A room chock full of computer consoles, models and
stuff on glass. Outside the window, the Enterprise is being built) 
LAFORGE: Damn. Right back where it all started. Whoa, this is
incredible. Leah, did you design this? 
LEAH [OC]: The dilithium crystal chamber was designed at outpost
designated Seran T One, Stardate 40052. Some of the Federation's best
engineering minds participated in its development. 
LAFORGE: That's the visiting dignitary talk. What's the inside story?
Off the record. 
COMPUTER: Access denied. Personal logs are restricted. 
LAFORGE: Great. Another woman who won't get personal with me in the
holodeck. Leah, I want to find a way to supplement the energy supply to
the ship and to the engines. Could we alter the matter-antimatter
paths? 
LEAH [OC]: Theoretically, yes. The system should be able to accept more
reactants at a faster rate of injection. 
LAFORGE: Well, this is your baby. Show me which ones. 
(A hand on his shoulder makes him look round. There she is, a brunette
in seriously padded shoulders)
LAFORGE: Computer, did I ask for a simulation? 
COMPUTER: Affirmative. You asked Doctor Brahms to show you which system
could accept reactants at a faster rate. By accessing available
imagery, an adequate facsimile was possible. 
LAFORGE: I did do that, didn't I? Okay, well, it's good to see you,
Leah. Continue your analysis. 
LEAH: Systems L-452 through L-575 will accept reactants, providing all
other systems are calibrated to an equal factor. 
LAFORGE: Then, if we use multiple injector streams, hitting more than
one crystal facet, we could do it, we could hold our own. Leah, you're
beautiful. La Forge to Picard. 
PICARD [OC]: Go ahead. 
LAFORGE: Captain, we've found a way to extend the matter-antimatter
energy supplies. 
[Bridge]

PICARD: Well done, Mister La Forge. 
RIKER: Geordi, can you give us enough power to get us out of here?

[Utopia Planitia Drafting room]

LAFORGE: Sorry, Commander, we haven't addressed
that one yet. First priority was to maintain the shields. 
[Bridge]

RIKER: Acknowledged. 
LAFORGE [OC]: We'll get to work on it right away, Sir. 
PICARD: Pass my congratulations to the rest of your team. 
[Utopia Planitia Drafting room]

LAFORGE: Thanks, Captain. We're all smiles down
here. 
(Except Leah is an immobile hologram awaiting a question)

