RIKER LAFORGE PICARD LEAH COMPUTER DATA

[Warship Bridge]

DATA: We can enhance them through the image
processor in the ship's computer. 
[Bridge]

PICARD: Good. Return at once. 
RIKER [OC]: Aye, sir. 
[Engineering]

LAFORGE: Computer, generate a cross section image
of the dilithium crystal chamber. What about re-orienting the crystal? 
LEAH [OC]: It is possible to reorient the crystal. The key lies in
adjusting the lattice structure direction. This modification will be
integrated into the next class starship. 
LAFORGE: Sorry, can't wait. You and me, Leah, we've got just two hours
to figure this thing out. You know what I need to do? I need to get
inside there. I need to be able to turn that thing inside out.
Computer, is there a cross section image we can replicate on a
holodeck? 
COMPUTER: Select menu. Design specifications or prototype schematic. 
LAFORGE: Prototype? Elaborate. 
COMPUTER: A development stage prototype schematic at Utopia Planitia.
Drafting room five of the Mars Station, Stardate 40174. 
LAFORGE: Perfect. Recreate it in holodeck three. Stay with me, Doc.

[Corridor]

LAFORGE: Ready, computer? 
COMPUTER: Holodeck three programme is ready.

[Utopia Planitia Drafting room]

(A room chock full of computer consoles, models and
stuff on glass. Outside the window, the Enterprise is being built) 
LAFORGE: Damn. Right back where it all started. Whoa, this is
incredible. Leah, did you design this? 
LEAH [OC]: The dilithium crystal chamber was designed at outpost
designated Seran T One, Stardate 40052. Some of the Federation's best
engineering minds participated in its development. 
LAFORGE: That's the visiting dignitary talk. What's the inside story?
Off the record. 
COMPUTER: Access denied. Personal logs are restricted. 
LAFORGE: Great. Another woman who won't get personal with me in the
holodeck. Leah, I want to find a way to supplement the energy supply to
the ship and to the engines. Could we alter the matter-antimatter
paths? 
LEAH [OC]: Theoretically, yes. The system should be able to accept more
reactants at a faster rate of injection. 
LAFORGE: Well, this is your baby. Show me which ones. 
(A hand on his shoulder makes him look round. There she is, a brunette
in seriously padded shoulders)
LAFORGE: Computer, did I ask for a simulation? 
COMPUTER: Affirmative. You asked Doctor Brahms to show you which system
could accept reactants at a faster rate. By accessing available
imagery, an adequate facsimile was possible. 
LAFORGE: I did do that, didn't I? Okay, well, it's good to see you,
Leah. Continue your analysis. 
LEAH: Systems L-452 through L-575 will accept reactants, providing all
other systems are calibrated to an equal factor. 
LAFORGE: Then, if we use multiple injector streams, hitting more than
one crystal facet, we could do it, we could hold our own. Leah, you're
beautiful. La Forge to Picard. 
PICARD [OC]: Go ahead. 
LAFORGE: Captain, we've found a way to extend the matter-antimatter
energy supplies. 
[Bridge]

PICARD: Well done, Mister La Forge. 
RIKER: Geordi, can you give us enough power to get us out of here?

