RIKER LAFORGE WORF RIKER [OC] LAFORGE [OC] PICARD DATA
elusive settings books lounge matter engineering conservation anti killed

[Engineering]

RIKER [OC]: We need warp power now! 
LAFORGE: Matter-anti matter mixture ratio settings at optimum balance
Reaction sequence corresponding to specified norms. Magnetic plasma
transfer to warp field generators per programme specs. Commander, we
should be going like a bat out of hell.

[Bridge]

DATA: Power loss now at twelve percent, Captain. 
PICARD: Red alert. 
WORF: Radiation intensity increasing. 
LAFORGE [OC]: We'd better slow these engines down before we burn out
the reaction chamber. 
RIKER: Slow to idle, Geordi. 
PICARD: Is it possible we've fallen into the same snare that killed
them? A thousand year old booby trap?

[Observation lounge]

LAFORGE: With the engines idling, the energy loss
has been limited, but our reserves will be depleted in less than three
hours. We won't be able to hold our shields in place. 
PICARD: Mister Worf, have you been able to identify the source of the
radiation? 
WORF: No, sir. The radiation field is so strong it interferes with our
sensors. 
PICARD: And no apparent explanation for the energy loss? 
LAFORGE: No, sir. 

RIKER: Is there anything in the history books, Data, that could give us
a clue? 
DATA: There are many fascinating records of Menthar battle strategy.
They were exceptionally innovative. In fact, they were the first to use
the Kavis Teke elusive manoeuvre as well as the passive lure stratagem
that is comparable to Napoleon's 
RIKER: Any mention of a situation like this? 
DATA: No, sir. 
RIKER: I recommend that I return to the cruiser with an away team. 
LAFORGE: They didn't have much success with this problem, Commander. 
RIKER: No, but they knew who their enemy was better than we do. They
may have known what caused the trouble. They just didn't know how to
get out. 
PICARD: Agreed. Mister Worf, what would be the impact of lowering the
shields long enough to get the away team out? 
WORF: Negligible. 
LAFORGE: Won't do much for our energy conservation, Captain. 
PICARD: That's your job, Commander La Forge. Determine some way to keep
the Enterprise up and running. Data, you join Commander Riker on the
away team. Find out what happened on that ship.

