RIKER LAFORGE PICARD LEAH COMPUTER DATA GALEKSAR

[Bridge]

RIKER: Acknowledged. 
LAFORGE [OC]: We'll get to work on it right away, Sir. 
PICARD: Pass my congratulations to the rest of your team. 
[Utopia Planitia Drafting room]

LAFORGE: Thanks, Captain. We're all smiles down
here. 
(Except Leah is an immobile hologram awaiting a question)

[Bridge]

DATA: Captain. We've been able to verify that these
coils are the logs of the Promellian captain, but most of them have
decayed and cannot be repaired. 
RIKER: Can you get any playback at all? 
DATA: On most, there are brief sections which may yield some
information. 
RIKER: Do the best you can, Data. Let's just hope we can get the
section we need. 
PICARD: Surely he must have logged the cause of the ship's death. What
captain wouldn't? 
RIKER: All found in an open locker? I don't think he was too concerned
with security.

[Utopia Planitia Drafting room]

LAFORGE: 452 through system L-575. 
COMPUTER: Adjustments to dilithium crystal chamber complete. 
LAFORGE: Impact analysis, computer. 
COMPUTER: Warp energy has increased fourteen percent. Reactants per
unit time remaining steady. 
LAFORGE: Yes! All right! Computer, do you have any, you know,
personality on file for Doctor Brahms? 
COMPUTER: Starfleet personality profile analysis, stardate 40056. 
LAFORGE: Did she ever debate at the intergalactic caucuses on Chaya
Seven? 
COMPUTER: Doctor Brahms attended Chaya Seven caucuses on the following
stardates 
LAFORGE: Never mind the dates. Computer, if you add data from all these
sources, could you synthesise a true representation
of Doctor Brahms? 
COMPUTER: There would be a nine point three seven percent margin of
error in the interactive responses from the facsimile. 
LAFORGE: I can live with that. Do it. (Leah takes a breath, then
smiles) Doctor Brahms? 
LEAH: Geordi, it's me, Leah. Don't start calling me Doctor Brahms or
I'll call you Commander La Forge. 
LAFORGE: Right. 
LEAH: Now, we've managed to maintain energy but we can't leave it in
this realignment forever without burning out components, so we need to
move quickly. 
(Geordi's jaw is on the floor) 
LEAH: Are you with me? 
LAFORGE: Yeah. Yeah! Yeah!.

[Bridge]

GALEK SAR [on monitor]: We have been stripped of
all propulsion, and our weapons are useless. We cannot move and we
cannot fight. The ship is being lashed with lethal radiation from the
aceton assimilators concealed in the wreckage surrounding the 
PICARD: Aceton assimilators? 
DATA: Aceton assimilators are a primitive generator which can drain
power from distant sources. 
RIKER: Generators? 
DATA: It would not be difficult to modify them to convert energy into
radiation. 
RIKER: The Menthars hide them in floating debris. An unsuspecting enemy
ship flies in. Instant booby trap. 
PICARD: And now we're supplying the devices with the energy to kill us.

[Utopia Planitia Drafting room]

LAFORGE: No, no, no! 
LEAH: Will you listen to me! 
LAFORGE: You can't boost the warp power that way! 
LEAH: You can just increase the speed of the parallel subspace field
processor to gain a quicker response time 
LAFORGE: I want to give us enough power to strengthen the shields and
barrel out of here, not blow us up! 
LEAH: This is my design we're talking about. I did all the calculations
myself. 
LAFORGE: I don't care if you built it with your bare hands out of an
old Ferengi cargo ship, it's going to go (whee boom) and we're going
with it. 
LEAH: I am not used to having people question my judgment. 
LAFORGE: And I'm not used to dying. Okay, look. You worked in a lab on
a static model. This is a working machine. It's got tens of thousands
of light years on it. 
LEAH: True. 
LAFORGE: Damn right. Listen, we'd never be certain that the circuit
paths are sealed. 
LEAH: You're good. Very good. 
LAFORGE: I know my ship. Inside and out. 
LEAH: Well then you must know me inside and out. 'Cos a lot of me is in
here. 
LAFORGE: You know, I always wished that a Chief Engineer could be
present when a ship is being built. 
LEAH: That's what's wrong with designers. We never get out in space. 
LAFORGE: Well, you're there now. 
RIKER [OC]: Commander La Forge to the Bridge. 
LAFORGE: On my way, Commander. Don't go away. I mean, computer, save
programme.

