RIKER LAFORGE WORF PICARD LEAH COMPUTER CRUSHER DATA GALEKSAR

[Bridge]

GALEK SAR [on monitor]: We have been stripped of
all propulsion, and our weapons are useless. We cannot move and we
cannot fight. The ship is being lashed with lethal radiation from the
aceton assimilators concealed in the wreckage surrounding the 
PICARD: Aceton assimilators? 
DATA: Aceton assimilators are a primitive generator which can drain
power from distant sources. 
RIKER: Generators? 
DATA: It would not be difficult to modify them to convert energy into
radiation. 
RIKER: The Menthars hide them in floating debris. An unsuspecting enemy
ship flies in. Instant booby trap. 
PICARD: And now we're supplying the devices with the energy to kill us.

[Utopia Planitia Drafting room]

LAFORGE: No, no, no! 
LEAH: Will you listen to me! 
LAFORGE: You can't boost the warp power that way! 
LEAH: You can just increase the speed of the parallel subspace field
processor to gain a quicker response time 
LAFORGE: I want to give us enough power to strengthen the shields and
barrel out of here, not blow us up! 
LEAH: This is my design we're talking about. I did all the calculations
myself. 
LAFORGE: I don't care if you built it with your bare hands out of an
old Ferengi cargo ship, it's going to go (whee boom) and we're going
with it. 
LEAH: I am not used to having people question my judgment. 
LAFORGE: And I'm not used to dying. Okay, look. You worked in a lab on
a static model. This is a working machine. It's got tens of thousands
of light years on it. 
LEAH: True. 
LAFORGE: Damn right. Listen, we'd never be certain that the circuit
paths are sealed. 
LEAH: You're good. Very good. 
LAFORGE: I know my ship. Inside and out. 
LEAH: Well then you must know me inside and out. 'Cos a lot of me is in
here. 
LAFORGE: You know, I always wished that a Chief Engineer could be
present when a ship is being built. 
LEAH: That's what's wrong with designers. We never get out in space. 
LAFORGE: Well, you're there now. 
RIKER [OC]: Commander La Forge to the Bridge. 
LAFORGE: On my way, Commander. Don't go away. I mean, computer, save
programme.

[Bridge]

PICARD: How many devices do we think we're dealing
with, Mister Data? 
DATA: To create this radiation field would take several hundred
thousand, sir. 
RIKER: They've been out there a long time, Data. There must have been
some deterioration. 
DATA: There is no way to precisely calculate that, Commander, but it is
likely. 
PICARD: Is there any indication of a weakness in a specific part of the
field? 
WORF: Nothing substantial, Captain. 
PICARD: Of any kind. 
WORF: There is a point one percent dip in the strength of the radiation
field at two one mark eight by four two mark zero. 
PICARD: I want that point one percent. 
RIKER: I recommend we fire directional phasers at those coordinates. 
LAFORGE: We won't be able to maintain energy reserves. We might even
lose a few circuits in the new configuration. 
PICARD: How critical will the losses be? 
LAFORGE: Not enough to shut down our engines, but if we don't make it I
don't know that I can hold the shields. 
DATA: There is also the possibility that the phasers will supply the
assimilators with what they need most. Energy. 
PICARD: You know, I imagine a very similar discussion taking place on
our neighbour ship over a thousand years ago. Let's hope our decisions
are more successful than theirs were. Mister La Forge, I want you to
return to Engineering and continue with your efforts without delay.
Mister Worf, prepare the phasers. 
WORF: Phasers locked on coordinates. 
PICARD: Fire. 
RIKER: Nothing. 
WORF: Radiation levels increasing. Eight percent. Ten percent. 
DATA: Energy reserves are dropping rapidly, sir. 
PICARD: Damn you.

[Utopia Planitia Drafting room]

LAFORGE: Wouldn't that increase the output of the
subspace processors to gain a quicker response time? 
LEAH: The processors can handle the extra input. 
LAFORGE: Yeah, but how do we reconfigure? 
COMPUTER: Energy reserves reaching critical stage. Standard procedure
requires termination of all simulations. 
LAFORGE: Computer, override standard procedure. 
COMPUTER: Override authority restricted. 
LAFORGE: What? Computer! 
[Observation lounge]

(Sitting in the light of the stars) 
LAFORGE [OC]: The crystal lattice is breaking down. We'll have to pick
up repairs when we can reach a starbase.
RIKER: The optimist of the group. 
PICARD: How long do we have shields based on current calculations? 
WORF: Under two hours, Captain. And the radiation field has increased
by seventeen percent. 
PICARD: So what impact will that have on fatal exposure? 
CRUSHER: Down to twenty six minutes. 
RIKER: If we resist, we die. If we don't resist, we die. 
PICARD: Mister La Forge, have we shut down all non-essential energy
usage? 
[Engineering]

LAFORGE: Yes, sir. In fact, I need to get some
back. I'm running a programme on holodeck three. 
