PICARD [OC] RIKER LAFORGE WORF PICARD LEAH LAFORGE [OC] WESLEY COMPUTER DATA
shut ability bother flying say zero asteroid time increasing

[Ready room]

PICARD: Come. 
RIKER: Any word from La Forge? 
PICARD: He's come up with something that may give us a chance, if we
agree to stay out of it. He proposes to turn total control of the ship
over to the computer because it is capable of making quicker
adjustments than any human being. 
RIKER: Computers have always impressed me with their ability to take
orders. I'm not nearly as convinces of their ability to creatively give
them. 
PICARD: You know, Number One, you missed something not playing with
model ships. They were the source of imaginary voyages, each holding a
treasure of adventures. Manning the earliest space craft, flying a
aeroplane with only one propeller to keep you in the sky. Can you
imagine that? Now the machines are flying us. 
[Utopia Planitia Drafting room]

COMPUTER: End simulation. Fatal exposure. 
LAFORGE: Computer, reduce thrust levels another four percent. Adjust
trajectory angle to compensate. Begin simulation again. 
LEAH: There you go. We got out. 
LAFORGE: Repeat simulation, same levels. 
COMPUTER: End simulation. Fatal exposure. 
LAFORGE: You see? Same variables, only this time the computer didn't
quite make it. 
(Red alert sounds) 
COMPUTER: Deflector shield failure. Lethal radiation levels. Fatal
exposure in twenty six minutes. 
LEAH: It might work, Geordi. 
LAFORGE: And it might not. I can't ask Captain Picard to turn the ship
over to a computer. 
LEAH: It's all we've got. 
PICARD [OC]: Picard to La Forge. 
LAFORGE: Captain. 
[Bridge]

LAFORGE [OC]: Two minutes. Give me just two
minutes. 
[Utopia Planitia Drafting room]

LAFORGE: There is another way, Captain. Two
minutes, please. 
[Bridge]

PICARD: Two minutes, Mister La Forge. Picard out.

[Utopia Planitia Drafting room]

LEAH: Geordi, there's no other way. 
LAFORGE: No, no, wait. Listen. Turn it completely around. Literally.
Come at it from the opposite direction. God, it's so simple it might
even work. Okay, computer, new simulation. 
[Bridge]

LAFORGE: Everything we've tried to do has been
based on overpowering the trap. More energy, faster adjustments. But
that's exactly what we can't do because that's what we're supposed to
do. That's the booby trap. The answer lies in our own computer, the
mind. The best piece of engineering we'll ever need. 
PICARD: But didn't your researches indicate a thousand adjustments per
second would be required? 
LAFORGE: Not if we shut everything off. One blast of everything we've
got left for a microsecond to beat the inertia and then we shut it all
down, except minimal life support and two thrusters. No impulse
engines. No computer. 
RIKER: One propeller, Captain? 
COMPUTER: Deflector shield failure. Lethal radiation levels. Fatal
exposure in twelve minutes. 
PICARD: Have you analysed the risk factor? 
LAFORGE: The numbers say it's even money. It's no better than turning
it over to the computer, but no worse either. But I say forget the
numbers. There's no way the computer can compensate for the human
factor. The intuition, the experience. 
PICARD: And the wish to stay alive. Make it so. 
LAFORGE: I've run the simulations, Captain. If you want, I'll take the
conn. 
PICARD: Thank you, Mister La Forge, but you've done your job. Now I
must do mine. I relieve you, Mister Crusher. 
WESLEY: Yes, sir. 
RIKER: All hands, this is Commander Riker. We are about to engage
impulse engines for a short burst. Inertial dampers are on manual. They
may not fully compensate for acceleration. So brace yourselves. 
COMPUTER: Deflector shield failure. Lethal radiation levels. 
RIKER: Computer, discontinue radiation warning till further notice.
It's all yours, sir. 
PICARD: Thank you, Number One. Firing impulse engines. 
(They glide past the warship. Picard wordlessly taps at controls, Data
does the commentary) 
DATA: Impulse engines are down. 
LAFORGE: Shutting down all systems. 
DATA: Velocity is one hundred thirty five metres per second. 
WORF: We will be entering the debris field in eight seconds. 
DATA: Starboard thruster firing. 
RIKER: Coming to heading three four zero mark one zero. 
DATA: Thruster is off. 
RIKER: Captain, that large mass to port may contain an assimilator. 
DATA: Port thrusters firing. 
WORF: No reaction from the assimilator. 
RIKER: Okay, we're over the first hurdle. 
WORF: Sir! Object to port. 
DATA: Port thruster is firing. Sir, the gravitational attraction of the
various masses has reduced our velocity by eight percent. By my
calculations, we no longer have sufficient momentum to clear the debris
field. 
PICARD: Thank you, Mister Data. 
DATA: The asteroid's gravity is drawing us closer. Velocity is
increasing. Velocity still increasing. Now at two hundred and nineteen
metres per second. Starboard aft thruster. You have used the asteroid's
gravitational pull as a slingshot. Excellent. 
RIKER: We're out. We got through. 
PICARD: You have the conn, Mister Crusher. 
WESLEY: Yes, sir. 
PICARD: Initiate full restart. Put all systems back online. 
LAFORGE: With pleasure, sir. 
PICARD: Number One, make sure that booby trap doesn't bother anyone
again. 
RIKER: Mister Worf, ready photon torpedoes. Set to detonate on impact
with the Promellian vessel. 
WORF: Aye, sir. 
(Four red balls, and four big explosions from the ship and three
asteroids)

