TOMALAK [on viewscreen] RIKER WORF WESLEY PICARD TROI PATAHK O'BRIEN CRUSHER DATA
loss aggression salem recovered smile consideration mister condition degeneration

[Transporter room]

CRUSHER: Get him to Sickbay. 
WORF: Secure Sickbay. Post a guard in visual contact at all times. 
CRUSHER: He's not going anywhere, Lieutenant. 
O'BRIEN: I'm sorry, Commander. There's just no way to lock in on
anything down there. 
RIKER: Keep trying, O'Brien. 
O'BRIEN: The electrical storm's creating thousands of ghosts. 
RIKER: Well beam some of those ghosts back. One of them may be Geordi.
Permission to lead another away team, sir. 
PICARD: Denied. When we get another window in the storms. The crash
site?

[Corridor]

RIKER: The Romulan craft is a total loss. There's
nothing there to salvage unless you want to use tweezers. 
PICARD: No sign of others? 
RIKER: You couldn't see two metres in front of yourself down there. 
PICARD: It certainly is the last place one would expect Romulan
encroachment. On the other hand, Galorndon Core
would provide ideal cover for an opening move of a new offensive. 
RIKER: I doubt if they were there for the climate.

[Pit]

(Geordi has spotted some medal ore in the wall of
the pit. He makes a groove in the mud, puts the nodules in it then uses
his phaser to melt them into a dagger shape)

[Sickbay]

(Crusher is operating on the injured Romulan) 
CRUSHER: We thought it would be like working on Vulcans, but there are
subtle differences. Too many of them. 
PICARD: Can you treat him? 
CRUSHER: He has cell damage to vital areas. He's going to need a
transfusion of compatible ribosomes in order to recover.
I'm setting up a schedule to test every member of the crew. 
PICARD: We can't use the replicator? 
CRUSHER: The molecules are too complex. 
RIKER: Will he survive? 
CRUSHER: I can't answer that yet. 
RIKER: Well let me put it another way. Will he survive long enough to
tell us what he was doing here? 
PICARD: Doctor, it's an important consideration. 
CRUSHER: I can bring him around for a few minutes. But there is one
serious complication. His brainwaves indicate early neural-pathway
degeneration. 
RIKER: Head injury? 
CRUSHER: There's no obvious cranial trauma. I'm guessing his exposure
to the magnetic fields on the surface was slowly breaking down his
synaptic connections. 
RIKER: Will it affect Geordi the same way? 
(She nods, then injects the Romulan) 
CRUSHER: He'll be conscious for a minute or two. 
RIKER: You are on board the Federation Starship Enterprise. We're
treating your injuries. How long were you down on Galorndon Core? Do
you understand me? 
PATAHK: I will not answer questions. 
RIKER: We need to know if there are other survivors on the surface. 
PATAHK: I am alone. I will not answer any questions. 
RIKER: Do you have a mother ship who should be advised of your
condition? 
(He passes out again)
PICARD: The only answer he wants to give is that he was alone. 
RIKER: Which suggests that he wasn't.

[Pit]

(Geordi is using two home-made picks to help him
climb out of the pit. It's hard work, but he makes it back onto the
surface)

[Bridge]

RIKER: Something, anything to can cut through the
storm. Some way to get a signal through to him. 
WESLEY: A neutrino pulse. We could build a portable neutrino source and
send it in a probe to the planet surface. It'll act like a beacon. 
DATA: A neutrino pulse would send non-charged particles back up through
the atmosphere and would be detectable by Geordi's Visor. 
WESLEY: He can show us that he's found it by modifying the pulse 
PICARD: Make it so. 
DATA: Captain, I have a new transmission on a parallel frequency to the
distress call. 
PICARD: From the surface? 
DATA: No, sir. From inside the Romulan Zone. We should be able to view
the transmission. 
PICARD: On screen. 
(everyone, say Hi! to Andreas Katsoulis aka G'Kar the Narn from Babylon
5) 
TOMALAK [on viewscreen]: Tomalak to Pi. We have received your distress
signal. Respond. If you can hear me, we are entering the Neutral Zone
now. We will reach you in six hours. 
PICARD: Mister Worf, hail the Romulan vessel. 
WORF: Hailing frequencies open, sir. 
PICARD: Romulan vessel, this is Captain Jean-Luc Picard of the
Federation Starship Enterprise. 
WORF: The frequency is open, sir. 
PICARD: Commander Tomalak, we have intercepted your transmission. You
are not to enter Federation space. 
TOMALAK [on viewscreen]: Captain Picard, my apologies. Had I known you
were in this sector, I certainly would have advised you before crossing
the Neutral Zone. 
PICARD: Indeed? 
TOMALAK [on viewscreen]: I'm sure you will understand when I explain.
One of our ships had a slight navigational error and apparently crashed
on Galorndon Core. 
PICARD: A slight navigational error? Nearly half a light year past the
Neutral Zone? 
TOMALAK [on viewscreen]: I assure you, Captain, no aggression was
intended. 
PICARD: Commander, we have recovered one of your survivors. 
TOMALAK [on viewscreen]: He is on board your ship? 
PICARD: He is being treated for severe injuries. 
TOMALAK [on viewscreen]: And his craft? 
PICARD: Destroyed, deliberately, after the crash. 
TOMALAK [on viewscreen]: I'm sure you are prepared to leave at once and
rendezvous with me in the Neutral Zone. 
PICARD: I have an away team on the planet. We are waiting for a window
in the storm to beam them up. 
TOMALAK [on viewscreen]: And then you will return my officer? 
PICARD: Are there any other Romulans we should be looking to recover
from Galorndon Core? 
TOMALAK [on viewscreen]: No. It was a one-man craft. Captain, we will
be at the Federation border of the Neutral Zone in roughly five hours.
We will expect you to rendezvous at that time. 
(transmission ends) 
PICARD: Counsellor? 
TROI: There's great hostility behind his smile. He'll stop at nothing
to complete his mission. 
RIKER: Including the Neutral Zone border. 
WORF: Captain, I see no reason to return the Romulan to his ship. He
should be held and interrogated. 
RIKER: We have every right to detain him, sir. 
PICARD: Without evidence of intent, Number One, it will not be a simple
matter. 
RIKER: It obviously wasn't pilot's error. I think it demands a response
from us. 
PICARD: But we must measure our response carefully, or history may
remember Galorndon Core along with Pearl Harbour and Station Salem One
as the stage for a bloody preamble to war.

