RIKER LAFORGE WORF PICARD PATAHK O'BRIEN CRUSHER
passes head ll member indicate want advised replicator synaptic

[Pit]

LAFORGE: Worf!

Captain's log, Stardate 43349.2. An unidentified
distress signal has led to the discovery of a crashed Romulan vessel on
the surface of Galorndon Core, a Federation planet. We have recovered
one survivor, but Lieutenant Commander La Forge did not report back
with the away team and is still missing.

[Transporter room]

CRUSHER: Get him to Sickbay. 
WORF: Secure Sickbay. Post a guard in visual contact at all times. 
CRUSHER: He's not going anywhere, Lieutenant. 
O'BRIEN: I'm sorry, Commander. There's just no way to lock in on
anything down there. 
RIKER: Keep trying, O'Brien. 
O'BRIEN: The electrical storm's creating thousands of ghosts. 
RIKER: Well beam some of those ghosts back. One of them may be Geordi.
Permission to lead another away team, sir. 
PICARD: Denied. When we get another window in the storms. The crash
site?

[Corridor]

RIKER: The Romulan craft is a total loss. There's
nothing there to salvage unless you want to use tweezers. 
PICARD: No sign of others? 
RIKER: You couldn't see two metres in front of yourself down there. 
PICARD: It certainly is the last place one would expect Romulan
encroachment. On the other hand, Galorndon Core
would provide ideal cover for an opening move of a new offensive. 
RIKER: I doubt if they were there for the climate.

[Pit]

(Geordi has spotted some medal ore in the wall of
the pit. He makes a groove in the mud, puts the nodules in it then uses
his phaser to melt them into a dagger shape)

[Sickbay]

(Crusher is operating on the injured Romulan) 
CRUSHER: We thought it would be like working on Vulcans, but there are
subtle differences. Too many of them. 
PICARD: Can you treat him? 
CRUSHER: He has cell damage to vital areas. He's going to need a
transfusion of compatible ribosomes in order to recover.
I'm setting up a schedule to test every member of the crew. 
PICARD: We can't use the replicator? 
CRUSHER: The molecules are too complex. 
RIKER: Will he survive? 
CRUSHER: I can't answer that yet. 
RIKER: Well let me put it another way. Will he survive long enough to
tell us what he was doing here? 
PICARD: Doctor, it's an important consideration. 
CRUSHER: I can bring him around for a few minutes. But there is one
serious complication. His brainwaves indicate early neural-pathway
degeneration. 
RIKER: Head injury? 
CRUSHER: There's no obvious cranial trauma. I'm guessing his exposure
to the magnetic fields on the surface was slowly breaking down his
synaptic connections. 
RIKER: Will it affect Geordi the same way? 
(She nods, then injects the Romulan) 
CRUSHER: He'll be conscious for a minute or two. 
RIKER: You are on board the Federation Starship Enterprise. We're
treating your injuries. How long were you down on Galorndon Core? Do
you understand me? 
PATAHK: I will not answer questions. 
RIKER: We need to know if there are other survivors on the surface. 
PATAHK: I am alone. I will not answer any questions. 
RIKER: Do you have a mother ship who should be advised of your
condition? 
(He passes out again)
PICARD: The only answer he wants to give is that he was alone. 
RIKER: Which suggests that he wasn't.

[Pit]

(Geordi is using two home-made picks to help him
climb out of the pit. It's hard work, but he makes it back onto the
surface)

