RIKER WORF PICARD TROI WESLEY DATA CRUSHER TOMALAK

[Pit]

(Geordi is using two home-made picks to help him
climb out of the pit. It's hard work, but he makes it back onto the
surface)

[Bridge]

RIKER: Something, anything to can cut through the
storm. Some way to get a signal through to him. 
WESLEY: A neutrino pulse. We could build a portable neutrino source and
send it in a probe to the planet surface. It'll act like a beacon. 
DATA: A neutrino pulse would send non-charged particles back up through
the atmosphere and would be detectable by Geordi's Visor. 
WESLEY: He can show us that he's found it by modifying the pulse 
PICARD: Make it so. 
DATA: Captain, I have a new transmission on a parallel frequency to the
distress call. 
PICARD: From the surface? 
DATA: No, sir. From inside the Romulan Zone. We should be able to view
the transmission. 
PICARD: On screen. 
(everyone, say Hi! to Andreas Katsoulis aka G'Kar the Narn from Babylon
5) 
TOMALAK [on viewscreen]: Tomalak to Pi. We have received your distress
signal. Respond. If you can hear me, we are entering the Neutral Zone
now. We will reach you in six hours. 
PICARD: Mister Worf, hail the Romulan vessel. 
WORF: Hailing frequencies open, sir. 
PICARD: Romulan vessel, this is Captain Jean-Luc Picard of the
Federation Starship Enterprise. 
WORF: The frequency is open, sir. 
PICARD: Commander Tomalak, we have intercepted your transmission. You
are not to enter Federation space. 
TOMALAK [on viewscreen]: Captain Picard, my apologies. Had I known you
were in this sector, I certainly would have advised you before crossing
the Neutral Zone. 
PICARD: Indeed? 
TOMALAK [on viewscreen]: I'm sure you will understand when I explain.
One of our ships had a slight navigational error and apparently crashed
on Galorndon Core. 
PICARD: A slight navigational error? Nearly half a light year past the
Neutral Zone? 
TOMALAK [on viewscreen]: I assure you, Captain, no aggression was
intended. 
PICARD: Commander, we have recovered one of your survivors. 
TOMALAK [on viewscreen]: He is on board your ship? 
PICARD: He is being treated for severe injuries. 
TOMALAK [on viewscreen]: And his craft? 
PICARD: Destroyed, deliberately, after the crash. 
TOMALAK [on viewscreen]: I'm sure you are prepared to leave at once and
rendezvous with me in the Neutral Zone. 
PICARD: I have an away team on the planet. We are waiting for a window
in the storm to beam them up. 
TOMALAK [on viewscreen]: And then you will return my officer? 
PICARD: Are there any other Romulans we should be looking to recover
from Galorndon Core? 
TOMALAK [on viewscreen]: No. It was a one-man craft. Captain, we will
be at the Federation border of the Neutral Zone in roughly five hours.
We will expect you to rendezvous at that time. 
(transmission ends) 
PICARD: Counsellor? 
TROI: There's great hostility behind his smile. He'll stop at nothing
to complete his mission. 
RIKER: Including the Neutral Zone border. 
WORF: Captain, I see no reason to return the Romulan to his ship. He
should be held and interrogated. 
RIKER: We have every right to detain him, sir. 
PICARD: Without evidence of intent, Number One, it will not be a simple
matter. 
RIKER: It obviously wasn't pilot's error. I think it demands a response
from us. 
PICARD: But we must measure our response carefully, or history may
remember Galorndon Core along with Pearl Harbour and Station Salem One
as the stage for a bloody preamble to war.

[Sickbay]

CRUSHER: I want him off all the drugs. They're not
doing anything. Doctor Crusher to Picard. 
PICARD [OC]: Go ahead, Doctor. 
CRUSHER: My patient is not responding

[Bridge]

CRUSHER [OC]: To treatment. 
PICARD: You haven't found a compatible ribosome donor? 
CRUSHER: The lab is still processing the tests. Early results indicate
humans have far 
[Sickbay]

CRUSHER: Too many bio-rejection factors. I've also
ruled out the Vulcans we've tested. 
[Bridge]

CRUSHER [OC]: I think I'll try a little
old-fashioned country medicine. Keep the fever down, try to let the
body heal itself. 
PICARD: Keep me advised. Picard out. 
WESLEY: Captain, the neutrino beacon is operational, and we've placed
it aboard a class three probe. 
PICARD: Well done, Ensign. Mister Worf, launch the probe. 
WORF: Aye, aye, sir. 
(Geordi is making his way along a rock face streaming with rain,
immediately above a lake) 
WORF: Probe has reached the surface, sir. 
DATA: The neutrino stream is coming in strongly. Sensors are tracking
the probe despite the interference.

