TROI LAFORGE PICARD RAL RIKER WESLEY ARRIDOR DATA

[Shuttlepod]

LAFORGE: You know, if this doesn't work, the
thought of spending the rest of my life in here is none too appealing. 
DATA: There is a bright side, Geordi. You will have me to talk to.

[Bridge]

(The wormhole appears) 
DATA: It is visible, Captain. 
PICARD: Proceed when ready. 
(both little ships travel down the hole in space) 
DATA [OC]: (distorted) and intense energy fields which appear to be
stabil 
WESLEY: They've travelled beyond our communication capabilities, sir 
[Observation lounge]

RIKER: A complete analysis of our bid is available
on the ship's computer for your consideration. 
RAL: Commander, I realise what a difficult position this must be for
you. If you don't understand something, I hope you won't be too
embarrassed to ask me. 
RIKER: I think I have an idea what the rules are. 
RAL: Well, that's what makes it so interesting. The rules of the game
change to fit the moment. 
RIKER: Not unlike commanding a starship, Mister Ral. 
RAL: Well, Mister Riker's placed a great deal of emphasis on defence, a
subject he obviously knows well, having served Starfleet in a number of
conflicts. Now, the Chrysalians, we're enemies to no one, and we choose
to remain that way. Neutral.

RIKER: Neutral, and uninvolved, sir, in virtually all interstellar
matters of consequence. 
RAL: No one would claim that the Chrysalians are as powerful as the
mighty Federation, but we have resources, and technology, and
scientists too. But we also have had peace for ten generations. 
[Troi's quarters]

(Troi is getting a personal foot massage) 
RAL: You know, I was thinking. 
TROI: Mmm? 
RAL: Maybe I could stretch out these negotiations for a few days. Would
you like that? 
TROI: Mmm-hmmm. (she lies back on the bed) Devinoni Ral. Who are you? 
RAL: Well, what do your Betazoid senses tell you about me? 
TROI: Not much. My human physical response must be blocking them out. 
RAL: Good. 
TROI: It never happened to me before. 
RAL: I rather like it that I'm more difficult to read than your other
men. 
TROI: There aren't any others. Currently. 
RAL: What about Commander Riker? 
TROI: Who have you been talking to? 
RAL: No one. No one. I just sensed something when I saw the two of you
together. 
TROI: Will Riker and I are good friends. 
RAL: Ah ha. 
(she pushes him down and straddles him) 
TROI: It was once a little more than that. 
RAL: Ah. 
TROI: How come we're talking about me instead of you? 
RAL: Don't you have enough people talk about their lives to you? Who
counsels the Counsellor? 
TROI: Oh no, I want to know about you. 
RAL: I'm what you see right now. Just me, wanting to run away with you,
but knowing you'd never leave this damned ship. 
TROI: When I first saw you, I felt as if I'd been waiting for you. I'm
trying to understand why or how that's possible. 
RAL: Does it matter? Well, it will when I tell you. But you must
promise never to tell anyone else. 
TROI: What? 
RAL: I am part Betazoid too. My mother was one half, I am one quarter. 
TROI: You're empathic? 
RAL: The only one of five children. I must admit I was never as
comfortable sensing emotions as you seem to be. 
TROI: That's why you left Earth. 
RAL: Yes. I learned to live with it, use it, as you have. But still, it
isolates us, doesn't it? And I thought it would always would, so I
tucked my heart away. I didn't need it, I didn't want it. At the
negotiating table, it can be fatal to have a heart. But I never
realised how much I needed mine until I looked at you. 

[Shuttlecraft]

LAFORGE: I'm picking up an increase in accretion
matter filtering in from the terminus. 
(they come out into normal space) 
DATA: Monitors are functioning normally again. 
LAFORGE: Ferengi pod, everybody in one piece over there?

[Ferengi pod]

ARRIDOR: Our condition is no concern of yours,
Enterprise shuttle. We are competitors in this venture, not partners. 
