GOSS RIKER ARRIDOR MENDOZA PICARD RAL TROI CRUSHER [OC] CRUSHER DATA
advantage premier barzan satisfied collapses imagine fun choice thinks

[Ready room]

DATA: The data from the Barzan's probe of the
wormhole are quite impressive, Captain. The wormhole delivered the
probe beyond the Denkiri Arm, in the Gamma Quadrant. 
PICARD: It would take nearly a century at warp nine to cover that
distance. 
DATA: The same distance could be achieved in a matter of seconds
through the wormhole. 
RIKER: Imagine the Ferengi collecting tolls if we lose to them. 
MENDOZA: I don't think the Ferengi are the greatest threat at the
table. With all of DaiMon Goss' bluster, they don't have the resources
the Barzans need. 
RIKER: I think that Devinoni is the one that we need to watch out for. 
MENDOZA: An accurate observation. How did you recognise that? 
RIKER: He was the most one in the group. 
MENDOZA: You must play poker, Commander. 
RIKER: Poker? Is that a game of some sort? 
PICARD: Commander Riker conducts masterclasses in poker. 
MENDOZA: Our skills are not dissimilar, Commander. 
PICARD: Mister Mendoza, if this lives up to its billing, it will be a
discovery of extraordinary value. But it is a big if. 
RIKER: A wormholes is there one moment, and then gone the next. A
stable wormhole is unheard of. 
MENDOZA: Are you saying this may not be what it seems? 
DATA: The Barzans do not have manned space travel, so they had to
resort to an automated probe. Its findings are limited. It cannot be
determined from these charts how stable the wormhole really is, or how
long it will remain intact. 
PICARD: The Federation could wind up buying a proverbial lemon. 
DATA: Proverbial lemon? 
PICARD: Later, Data. 
MENDOZA: And of course that means, once the contract is negotiated and
closed, we would be obliged to fulfill the terms. 
RIKER: We think we should take a look for ourselves. 
MENDOZA: I don't think Bhavani could object to that. 
RIKER: Geordi has continuous visual contact with the wormhole, Captain.
I think he's the logical choice. 
DATA: I would also like to volunteer, sir. 
PICARD: Nobody's going in there until we have done a full sensor
analysis. I want to do everything possible to determine that it's safe,
and when I am satisfied, then you, Data, and Commander La Forge will
enter the wormhole
tomorrow.

[Guest quarters]

ARRIDOR: Just a moment of discomfort for a good
cause, DaiMon. You understand this will not be lethal. 
GOSS: Doctor, you surprise me. I have no wish to kill anyone. A short
term crippling will suffice. 
ARRIDOR: Then, this will be just fine. 
(He pours a liquid onto Goss' palm) 
ARRIDOR: A distillation of your own
blood pyrocytes. Harmless to you. Undetectable by the ship's
bio-filters, but when absorbed through your victim's skin, it will
provoke an extreme allergic reaction. 
GOSS: I'd say it is time to extend the hand of the Ferengi to the
representative of the Federation.

[Troi's quarters]

(Troi opens the door to Ral, wearing an off the
shoulder blue dress) 
RAL: Much better. 
TROI: Thank you. Come in for a drink? 
RAL: Ah, Federation decor. 
TROI: Not your style? 
RAL: Well, conformity is not my style. 
TROI: What would you like? 
(He takes a kiss) 
RAL: I'd even like another. There she is again, Counsellor Troi. 
TROI: I'm not. Computer, champagne. 
RAL: For two. Am I moving too fast for you? 
TROI: No, I'm moving too fast for me.

RAL: I like that better. 
TROI: I haven't been able to stop thinking about you all day. 
(They kiss again) 
RAL: You must have had a nice day. 
TROI: Anticipation is fun. (another kiss) We'll be late for dinner. 
RAL: Very late. 
(as he picks her up and carries her -)

[Sickbay]

(Mendoza staggers in) 
CRUSHER: Mister Mendoza. 
MENDOZA: I seem to be a bit warm. 
(he collapses) 
CRUSHER: I need some help here 
[Ready room]

GOSS: You attempt to gain every unfair advantage,
Picard. 
PICARD: Premier Bhavani has no objection. 
GOSS: Well, I most certainly do. First, you conveniently arrange to
play host, then you plan to send your own manned probe into the
wormhole. The Federation thinks it can do anything it wants to. Well, I
will not tolerate it! 
PICARD: I will gladly share the results of our exploration with all the
delegates. 
GOSS: And you expect us to believe what you report? 
RIKER: Then send in your own probe, Goss. 
GOSS: That's exactly what I intend to do. And I should strongly suggest
you stay out of our way. 
(The Ferengi's leave) 
PICARD: Tell Data and La Forge to do themselves a favour, and stay out
of their way. 
(Riker leaves) 
CRUSHER [OC]: Captain Picard, please come to Sickbay. 
PICARD: Acknowledged, Doctor.

