TROI LAFORGE BHAVANI RAL RIKER LEYOR ARRIDOR CRUSHER DATA

[Shuttlepod]

ARRIDOR [OC]: Ferengi pod, out. 
LAFORGE: Yeah, happy landings to you, too. 
DATA: Curious. We are not where we are supposed to be. 
LAFORGE: What do you mean? We're on the other side of the wormhole,
aren't we ? 
DATA: According to the Barzan probe, we should be in the Gamma Quadrant
but these readings clearly indicate we are nearly
two hundred light years away in sector three five five six of the Delta
Quadrant. 
LAFORGE: Maybe the Barzan readings were wrong. 
DATA: Perhaps the readings were correct. Their probe could have exited
the wormhole at a completely different location. 
LAFORGE: Data, my Visor's picking up subatomic fluctuations. Meson and
lepton activity is
definitely increasing. 
DATA: Gravitational acceleration is also increasing. 
LAFORGE: Something very strange is happening to this wormhole.

[Exercise room]

(Beverly is warming up when Troi runs in) 
TROI: Sorry. 
CRUSHER: You're unusually limber this morning. 
TROI: I'll say. Devinoni Ral. It's ridiculous, and wonderful. I feel
completely out of control. Happy. Terrified. But there's nothing
rational about this. 
CRUSHER: Who needs rational when your toes curl up? 
TROI: I'm afraid I'm going to lose myself. I can't get enough of him.
Is it possible to fall in love in one day? 
CRUSHER: I did. 
TROI: It was like this for you and Jack? 
CRUSHER: No, it was another fellow. I fell in love in a day, it lasted
a week. But what a week. Then I met Jack. It took months
to figure it out with him. 
TROI: Well then, maybe I should slow down. Catch my breath. Not let
this get out of control. 
CRUSHER + TROI: No.

[Ten Forward]

(Goss tries chatting up a crewwoman, but she's not
interested, so he moves onto another one) 
RAL: To be honest, I was surprised to see the Caldonians here at all,
Leyor. 
LEYOR: You must think Caldonia very insular, Mister Ral. 
RAL: Oh, no, no, not at all. Not at all. On the contrary, I've
respected your world's commitment to pure research. It's just that,
well. 
LEYOR: Go on, please. 
RAL: Well, scholars don't always enjoy administrative demands. And
certainly we've seen here that the administration of the wormhole is 
LEYOR: Yes, I must admit, I have begun to feel some trepidation about
that. 
RAL: Yes. Yes, I'm sure you have, Leyor. I'm sure we all have. Do you
realise that in the next century, the number of ships that will pass 
[Observation lounge]

BHAVANI: Gentlemen, this open session is called by
request of the Caldonian delegation. 
LEYOR: Madame Bhavani, Caldonia withdraws from these proceedings. 
BHAVANI: For what reasons, Leyor? 
LEYOR: It has been made very clear that the maintenance and
administrative requirements are beyond our abilities. 
RIKER: Leyor, the Federation would like to negotiate a trade agreement
in which we could acquire your planet's rich deposits of trillium 323
which we would add to our bid, Premier Bhavani. 
LEYOR: My apologies. We have already reached an agreement with the
Chrysalians. 
(Leyor leaves) 
RIKER: Mister Ral? You either had very good instincts, or foreknowledge
of the Caldonian withdrawal. 
RAL: Some people just don't wish to transact business with the
Federation, Commander. The Chrysalians hereby add the Caldonian
trillium 323 to its bid, Premier. 
[Shuttlepod]

LAFORGE: I'm telling you, it's changing. 
[Ferengi pod]

LAFORGE [OC]: I can see it with my Visor. 
ARRIDOR: I have no intention of leaving yet. We have not finished
taking our readings. 
LAFORGE [OC]: Listen, Doctor. 
