RIKER LAFORGE BHAVANI RAL LEYOR ARRIDOR

[Ten Forward]

(Goss tries chatting up a crewwoman, but she's not
interested, so he moves onto another one) 
RAL: To be honest, I was surprised to see the Caldonians here at all,
Leyor. 
LEYOR: You must think Caldonia very insular, Mister Ral. 
RAL: Oh, no, no, not at all. Not at all. On the contrary, I've
respected your world's commitment to pure research. It's just that,
well. 
LEYOR: Go on, please. 
RAL: Well, scholars don't always enjoy administrative demands. And
certainly we've seen here that the administration of the wormhole is 
LEYOR: Yes, I must admit, I have begun to feel some trepidation about
that. 
RAL: Yes. Yes, I'm sure you have, Leyor. I'm sure we all have. Do you
realise that in the next century, the number of ships that will pass 
[Observation lounge]

BHAVANI: Gentlemen, this open session is called by
request of the Caldonian delegation. 
LEYOR: Madame Bhavani, Caldonia withdraws from these proceedings. 
BHAVANI: For what reasons, Leyor? 
LEYOR: It has been made very clear that the maintenance and
administrative requirements are beyond our abilities. 
RIKER: Leyor, the Federation would like to negotiate a trade agreement
in which we could acquire your planet's rich deposits of trillium 323
which we would add to our bid, Premier Bhavani. 
LEYOR: My apologies. We have already reached an agreement with the
Chrysalians. 
(Leyor leaves) 
RIKER: Mister Ral? You either had very good instincts, or foreknowledge
of the Caldonian withdrawal. 
RAL: Some people just don't wish to transact business with the
Federation, Commander. The Chrysalians hereby add the Caldonian
trillium 323 to its bid, Premier. 
[Shuttlepod]

LAFORGE: I'm telling you, it's changing. 
[Ferengi pod]

LAFORGE [OC]: I can see it with my Visor. 
ARRIDOR: I have no intention of leaving yet. We have not finished
taking our readings. 
LAFORGE [OC]: Listen, Doctor. 
[Shuttlepod]

LAFORGE: Your readings must be telling you the same
things we're getting. This is not the Gamma Quadrant. 
[Ferengi pod]

ARRIDOR: I will not confirm your speculations. 
