GOSS TROI LAFORGE WORF BHAVANI PICARD RAL RIKER WESLEY COMPUTER

[Troi's quarters]

(Deanna and Troi are having dinner) 
TROI: Everyone was talking today about the way you absorbed the
Caldonian bid. 
RAL: Well, the opening was there. I took it 
TROI: Commander Riker didn't know how you managed it. 
RAL: Let me tell you something about Commander Riker. He's good. He's
the most dangerous man in the room to me. 
TROI: But he doesn't have an edge. Your edge. 
RAL: Our edge. You make it sound unethical. 
TROI: Isn't it? 
RAL: Deanna, it's just business. 
TROI: Why haven't you told anyone you're an empath? 
RAL: Because I find it makes people uncomfortable. 
TROI: I think you don't tell them so you can gain an advantage. 
RAL: Well, I gained an advantage by using it with you. You didn't seem
to mind that. Look, Deanna, the point of negotiating is to take
advantage. I don't know what the other side is offering, and they don't
know what I'm offering. So we dance around each other until somebody
wins. I never cry foul when I lose. 
TROI: But you're reading their emotional states, their inner selves,
and then using that to manipulate them. 
RAL: Well, people have been doing that for thousands of years, just by
listening carefully, by watching body language. I just happen to be
better at it. You do it. 
TROI: I do it to help my crew, not outmanoeuvre them. And I don't hide
that I'm an empath. 
RAL: Oh, so you announce it to every alien culture you encounter? Or do
you use it to give your side an advantage. Do you tell the Romulan
that's about to attack that you sense that he may be bluffing? Or do
you just tell it to your Captain? 
TROI: That's different. That's a matter of protection. 
RAL: Yes, protection. Your protection, your Captain, your crew, your
edge. Yes. Now it's a matter of life and death when you take the
advantage.
Me, I deal in property. Exchanges. No body gets hurt. So you tell me,
which one of us would you say has more of a problem with ethics? Excuse
me. 
[Ten Forward]

RAL: May I join you, Commander? 
RIKER: Bought out the Ferengi yet, Ral? 
RAL: Think I should give it a try? 
RIKER: No, but I think that you will. One way or another, it's going to
come down to you and me. 
RAL: You know, you're very good at this. Very good. Much better than
you realise. 
RIKER: I hope I'm better than you realise. 
RAL: The last mile of the marathon is always the toughest. That's when
the winners are willing to take the big risks. Are you willing to do
that? 
RIKER: We'll see, won't we? 
RAL: Well, let's see now. I'm prepared to reach a firm agreement with
Bhavani before we learn the outcome of your probe's expedition. Are
you? Well, well, well. That would not be looked upon favourably by the
Federation, I'd imagine. See, you have to be willing to
take that last step alone or it just isn't worth playing. 
RIKER: Your point of view, not mine. 
RAL: Oh, I see that, Commander, I see that. Otherwise you wouldn't be
second in command of this starship. You know, I feel responsible for
you in a way. Related. Deanna. We both love Deanna. Oh, in different
ways, of course. 
RIKER: I will remove the burden of that responsibility right now. My
relationship with Deanna stands very well on its own without any help
from you. 
RAL: Of course it does. Of course it does. It's just that, well, she's
an extraordinary woman. Brilliant. Lovely. Very passionate. And she
could have been yours, Will, but you just didn't do enough to keep her.
And now, well, I'm here, and I'm going to take her too. 
RIKER: That's the first bad play I've seen you make. If you can bring
happiness into Deanna's life, nothing would please me more. You know,
you're really not such a bad sort, Ral, except you don't have any
values, beyond the value of today's bid, that is. Deanna is just the
woman to bring some meaning to your sorry existence, if you're smart
enough to take it. I doubt that you are. To the last mile. 
(Riker finishes his drink and leaves) 
[Bridge]

WORF: Sir, the Ferengi vessel is moving out of
orbit. Impulse power They are approaching the entry to the wormhole,
sir. 
PICARD: Computer, is the Ferengi Goss still on board the Enterprise? 
COMPUTER: DaiMon Goss departed the Enterprise at fourteen hundred
hours. 
WORF: They are powering forward missile launchers, sir. 
PICARD: Yellow alert. Hail the Ferengi. 
PICARD: Request an explanation of your actions, DaiMon Goss. 
GOSS [on viewscreen]: I've learned from informed sources that the
Federation has manipulated these negotiations from the very beginning,
and has already signed a secret agreement with the Barzans. 
PICARD: That is not true. 
GOSS [on viewscreen]: The Ferengi offer was never seriously considered.

PICARD: Premier Bhavani welcomed you to these proceedings, despite my
better judgment. 
GOSS: [on viewscreen] We will be ignored no longer. 
WORF: They've fired a missile directly at the opening, sir. 
PICARD: Destroy it. 
WORF: On screen. Firing phasers.

[Observation lounge]

BHAVANI: Your offers both have merit, gentlemen. if
I could find a deciding factor 
(Red alert sounds) 
RIKER: Riker to Picard. What's happening, Captain? 
[Bridge]

PICARD: Goss has fired a missile at the wormhole. 
[Observation lounge]

PICARD [OC]: I need you on the Bridge, Number One. 
RIKER: Excuse me. 
(Riker leaves) 
RAL: Excuse me for saying so under the circumstances, Premier, but this
fight is really between the Federation and the Ferengi. Now it seems
unconscionable that your wormhole is being used as a pawn in their
power struggle.

[Bridge]

PICARD: You must know we will not allow you to do
this. 
GOSS [on viewscreen]: If the Ferengi cannot have the wormhole, no one
will. 
PICARD: A missile will have no destructive effect on a wormhole, but if
it should explode near the shuttlecraft they will be destroyed. 
GOSS [on viewscreen]: Casualties of war, Commander. My men are prepared
to die. Are yours? 
TROI: Captain, he's lying. I'm almost sure of it. He doesn't mean what
he says. 
RIKER: Why? What is he doing it for then? 
BHAVANI: Permission to enter the Bridge, Captain.
PICARD: Premier, with all due respect 
RAL: Captain, I believe I am in a better position to settle this with
DaiMon Goss than you are. May I address him? 
PICARD: Premier. 
RAL: DaiMon Goss, this is Devinoni Ral. 
GOSS [on viewscreen]: I have nothing to say to you, Ral. 
RAL: Well then, just listen. The planet Barzan has reached an agreement
with the Chrysalians for long term control of the wormhole. Now on
behalf of the Chrysalians, I am prepared to offer the Ferengi free
access to the wormhole in perpetuity. 
GOSS [on viewscreen]: I have your word on this? 
RAL: Yes, my word, sir, in exchange for Ferengi convoy privileges to be
negotiated in good faith. 
GOSS [on viewscreen]: This is an acceptable offer. 
WORF: Ferengi vessel has shut down its forward missile launcher. 
PICARD: Stand down red alert. 
BHAVANI: Commander Riker. I'm sorry you had to learn about my decision
this way. You represented the Federation well, but I have come to
believe that the Chrysalians' tradition of peace is more desirable to
my planet. 
TROI: Excuse me, Premier. There's something you should know. I'm sorry,
was there something you wanted to say? 
RAL: No, not at all. 
TROI: I sensed you suddenly felt uncomfortable. 
RAL: Well, after all, it was a very tense situation. 
TROI: But that's what's so odd. It wasn't tense at all. In fact, I
sensed no tension from you or Goss. 
GOSS [on viewscreen]: But I was tense! I was ready to blow it up! I
strongly protest!
PICARD: Screen off. 
TROI: It was as though you were performing a scene for all of us. 
RAL: Pardon me, Captain, I believe there's a slight conflict of
interest here. 
TROI: I agree, entirely. Mister Ral asked me not to tell anyone he has
empathic powers which he uses to manipulate his competitors in a
negotiation. And yes, it did put me in a conflict of interest, which I
hope I have now resolved. Premier, I believe Ral has used your fear of
continuing aggression between the Federation and its enemies to
undermine our position. I also believe that this incident was staged by
Ral and Goss to provide you a reason to choose in favour of the
Chrysalians. 
WESLEY: Captain, it's the shuttlecraft. They're coming back through. 
LAFORGE [OC]: Shuttle nine to Enterprise. 
PICARD: On screen. 
LAFORGE [OC]: This is shuttle nine reporting in. 
[Shuttlepod]

LAFORGE: Barely. 
PICARD [OC]: And the Ferengi pod, Commander? 
LAFORGE: Trapped on the other side, sir. 
[Bridge]

LAFORGE: In the Delta Quadrant. We tried to warn
them. They wouldn't follow us. 
PICARD: Elaborate. 
