GOSS RIKER OBRIEN WORF MENDOZA BHAVANI PICARD RAL TROI COMPUTER LEYOR ARRIDOR DATA

[Ten Forward]

RIKER: May I escort you, Miss Troi? 
TROI: Just tell me there's some chocolate here. 
PICARD: Ah, Counsellor Troi. Will you allow me to do the introductions?
This is Premier Bhavani of Barzan. Counsellor Deanna Troi. 
TROI: Your discovery has produced a great deal of excitement, Premier. 
BHAVANI: Hopefully, it will also produce a new era of prosperity for my
people. 
MENDOZA: We'll see to that. 
PICARD: You know Mister Mendoza, the Federation negotiator. 
MENDOZA: A pleasure to see you again, Counsellor Troi. 
PICARD: This is a worthy Federation competitors in the bidding, Leyor
of the Caldonians. 
(About eight feet tall with the prosthetic head, it's the same man who
played the Predator) 
LEYOR: Madame. 
RAL: And I'm Devinoni Ral. 
(a handsome human with a woman hanging onto his arm) 
TROI: Ship's Counsellor Deanna Troi. 
MENDOZA: My good friend, Ral, is the best hired gun in the business. 
TROI: Hired gun? 
RAL: My good friend Mendoza means that I'm a negotiator who serves a
variety of clients. On this particular occasion I represent the
Chrysalians. 
BHAVANI: I believe it's almost time, isn't it Captain? 
PICARD: Indeed. It will be visible directly ahead. 
MENDOZA: Is it always on time, Bhavani? 
BHAVANI: Always. We see it every two hundred and thirty three minutes.
Our scientists say it's due to radiation buildup in the
accretion disk. The visible burst is very brief. 
(a circular burst of light) 
BHAVANI: There it is, ladies and gentlemen, the first and only stable
wormhole known to exist. It's yours, for the right price. 
(but Troi's attention is taken up by Ral) 
Captain's log, Stardate 43385.6. We are orbiting
Barzan Two, which is entertaining bids for control of what appears to
be a stable wormhole, which could provide a permanent shortcut to the
distant Gamma Quadrant.

[Observation lounge]

BHAVANI: And as you all know, the environment on my
planet is completely inhospitable to most other life forms. So I'd like
to express my appreciation to you, Captain Picard, for hosting these
negotiations. The Barzan has been a society dependent on others for
generations. We want that to end. The appearance of this stable
wormhole in our space provides us with our first true natural resource.
We have neither the experience nor the technology to exploit it. But
you do. 
RIKER: Excuse me. There's a delegation of Ferengi who wishes to be
beamed aboard, sir. 
PICARD: Were you expecting the Ferengi, Premier? 
BHAVANI: No, but I do not wish to create ill will, Captain. If they are
interested in bidding, I have no objection. 
PICARD: Chief O'Brien, this is Captain Picard. Will you beam the
Ferengi directly to the Observation lounge? 
O'BRIEN [OC]: Aye, sir. 
(Three Ferengi arrive. One is holding a purple bag) 
GOSS: On behalf of all Ferengi, I protest. Why were we not invited to
these negotiations? 
BHAVANI: My apologies. We did not anticipate your interest. You're
welcome to join us. 
GOSS: My name is DaiMon Goss. These are my consuls, Kol and Doctor
Arridor. We'll need chairs. 
PICARD: I'm Captain Jean-Luc Picard of the Enterprise. I'm serving as
host for these proceedings. 
GOSS: Good, then see to it that we get chairs. 
PICARD: Let me explain. 
GOSS: Fine, fine, just have your Klingon servant get us some chairs. 
WORF: I am in charge of Security. 
GOSS: Then who gets the chairs? 
PICARD: DaiMon, due to the delicate nature of these negotiations, all
parties have agreed that one representative would suffice. Now I will
be happy to provide your consuls with accommodations and you may have
my chair. 
GOSS: Very well. 
PICARD: Premier. 
(Picard leaves, then lets out a deep sigh) 
GOSS: Kol, the bag. 
RIKER: Gentlemen, this way. 
GOSS: We can handle all the pleasantries later. Now, let's get down to
business. 
(He opens the bag of gold-pressed latinum bars) 
GOSS: I'll match anyone's best offer, and add the gold on top of it.

[Troi's office]

COMPUTER: Devinoni Ral, human. Age forty one. Born
Brussels, European Alliance. Relocated at age nineteen to Hurkos Three.

TROI: Come in. 
RAL: Should I call for an appointment ? 
TROI: No, I was just looking over some personnel files. 
RAL: Well, that's too bad. I thought you might be thinking about me. 
TROI: I thought you'd be deep in negotiations by now. 
RAL: In recess. I never play the opening rounds, anyway.
Inconsequential. Besides there are much better things to negotiate on
this ship. Like dinner tonight? 
TROI: What about your travelling companion? 
RAL: My travelling companion is travelling. I sent her home. 
TROI: Why? 
RAL: You know why. 
TROI: Weren't you getting along? 
RAL: Don't do that. 
TROI: What? 
RAL: Don't do Counsellor Troi. 
TROI: Was I? 
RAL: Yes, you were. When you leave this office, who are you? Oh. So
that's how it goes. You never do. You never do leave the office. 
TROI: What 
RAL: Shush. 
(He strokes her hair) 
RAL: Dinner at eight?

[Ready room]

DATA: The data from the Barzan's probe of the
wormhole are quite impressive, Captain. The wormhole delivered the
probe beyond the Denkiri Arm, in the Gamma Quadrant. 
PICARD: It would take nearly a century at warp nine to cover that
distance. 
DATA: The same distance could be achieved in a matter of seconds
through the wormhole. 
RIKER: Imagine the Ferengi collecting tolls if we lose to them. 
MENDOZA: I don't think the Ferengi are the greatest threat at the
table. With all of DaiMon Goss' bluster, they don't have the resources
the Barzans need. 
RIKER: I think that Devinoni is the one that we need to watch out for. 
MENDOZA: An accurate observation. How did you recognise that? 
RIKER: He was the most one in the group. 
MENDOZA: You must play poker, Commander. 
RIKER: Poker? Is that a game of some sort? 
PICARD: Commander Riker conducts masterclasses in poker. 
MENDOZA: Our skills are not dissimilar, Commander. 
PICARD: Mister Mendoza, if this lives up to its billing, it will be a
discovery of extraordinary value. But it is a big if. 
RIKER: A wormholes is there one moment, and then gone the next. A
stable wormhole is unheard of. 
MENDOZA: Are you saying this may not be what it seems? 
DATA: The Barzans do not have manned space travel, so they had to
resort to an automated probe. Its findings are limited. It cannot be
determined from these charts how stable the wormhole really is, or how
long it will remain intact. 
PICARD: The Federation could wind up buying a proverbial lemon. 
DATA: Proverbial lemon? 
PICARD: Later, Data. 
MENDOZA: And of course that means, once the contract is negotiated and
closed, we would be obliged to fulfill the terms. 
RIKER: We think we should take a look for ourselves. 
MENDOZA: I don't think Bhavani could object to that. 
RIKER: Geordi has continuous visual contact with the wormhole, Captain.
I think he's the logical choice. 
DATA: I would also like to volunteer, sir. 
PICARD: Nobody's going in there until we have done a full sensor
analysis. I want to do everything possible to determine that it's safe,
and when I am satisfied, then you, Data, and Commander La Forge will
enter the wormhole
tomorrow.

[Guest quarters]

ARRIDOR: Just a moment of discomfort for a good
cause, DaiMon. You understand this will not be lethal. 
GOSS: Doctor, you surprise me. I have no wish to kill anyone. A short
term crippling will suffice. 
ARRIDOR: Then, this will be just fine. 
(He pours a liquid onto Goss' palm) 
ARRIDOR: A distillation of your own
blood pyrocytes. Harmless to you. Undetectable by the ship's
bio-filters, but when absorbed through your victim's skin, it will
provoke an extreme allergic reaction. 
GOSS: I'd say it is time to extend the hand of the Ferengi to the
representative of the Federation.

