TROI LAFORGE RAL LEYOR ARRIDOR CRUSHER DATA

[Troi's quarters]

(Troi is getting a personal foot massage) 
RAL: You know, I was thinking. 
TROI: Mmm? 
RAL: Maybe I could stretch out these negotiations for a few days. Would
you like that? 
TROI: Mmm-hmmm. (she lies back on the bed) Devinoni Ral. Who are you? 
RAL: Well, what do your Betazoid senses tell you about me? 
TROI: Not much. My human physical response must be blocking them out. 
RAL: Good. 
TROI: It never happened to me before. 
RAL: I rather like it that I'm more difficult to read than your other
men. 
TROI: There aren't any others. Currently. 
RAL: What about Commander Riker? 
TROI: Who have you been talking to? 
RAL: No one. No one. I just sensed something when I saw the two of you
together. 
TROI: Will Riker and I are good friends. 
RAL: Ah ha. 
(she pushes him down and straddles him) 
TROI: It was once a little more than that. 
RAL: Ah. 
TROI: How come we're talking about me instead of you? 
RAL: Don't you have enough people talk about their lives to you? Who
counsels the Counsellor? 
TROI: Oh no, I want to know about you. 
RAL: I'm what you see right now. Just me, wanting to run away with you,
but knowing you'd never leave this damned ship. 
TROI: When I first saw you, I felt as if I'd been waiting for you. I'm
trying to understand why or how that's possible. 
RAL: Does it matter? Well, it will when I tell you. But you must
promise never to tell anyone else. 
TROI: What? 
RAL: I am part Betazoid too. My mother was one half, I am one quarter. 
TROI: You're empathic? 
RAL: The only one of five children. I must admit I was never as
comfortable sensing emotions as you seem to be. 
TROI: That's why you left Earth. 
RAL: Yes. I learned to live with it, use it, as you have. But still, it
isolates us, doesn't it? And I thought it would always would, so I
tucked my heart away. I didn't need it, I didn't want it. At the
negotiating table, it can be fatal to have a heart. But I never
realised how much I needed mine until I looked at you. 

[Shuttlecraft]

LAFORGE: I'm picking up an increase in accretion
matter filtering in from the terminus. 
(they come out into normal space) 
DATA: Monitors are functioning normally again. 
LAFORGE: Ferengi pod, everybody in one piece over there?

[Ferengi pod]

ARRIDOR: Our condition is no concern of yours,
Enterprise shuttle. We are competitors in this venture, not partners. 
[Shuttlepod]

ARRIDOR [OC]: Ferengi pod, out. 
LAFORGE: Yeah, happy landings to you, too. 
DATA: Curious. We are not where we are supposed to be. 
LAFORGE: What do you mean? We're on the other side of the wormhole,
aren't we ? 
DATA: According to the Barzan probe, we should be in the Gamma Quadrant
but these readings clearly indicate we are nearly
two hundred light years away in sector three five five six of the Delta
Quadrant. 
LAFORGE: Maybe the Barzan readings were wrong. 
DATA: Perhaps the readings were correct. Their probe could have exited
the wormhole at a completely different location. 
LAFORGE: Data, my Visor's picking up subatomic fluctuations. Meson and
lepton activity is
definitely increasing. 
DATA: Gravitational acceleration is also increasing. 
LAFORGE: Something very strange is happening to this wormhole.

[Exercise room]

(Beverly is warming up when Troi runs in) 
TROI: Sorry. 
CRUSHER: You're unusually limber this morning. 
TROI: I'll say. Devinoni Ral. It's ridiculous, and wonderful. I feel
completely out of control. Happy. Terrified. But there's nothing
rational about this. 
CRUSHER: Who needs rational when your toes curl up? 
TROI: I'm afraid I'm going to lose myself. I can't get enough of him.
Is it possible to fall in love in one day? 
CRUSHER: I did. 
TROI: It was like this for you and Jack? 
CRUSHER: No, it was another fellow. I fell in love in a day, it lasted
a week. But what a week. Then I met Jack. It took months
to figure it out with him. 
TROI: Well then, maybe I should slow down. Catch my breath. Not let
this get out of control. 
CRUSHER + TROI: No.

[Ten Forward]

(Goss tries chatting up a crewwoman, but she's not
interested, so he moves onto another one) 
RAL: To be honest, I was surprised to see the Caldonians here at all,
Leyor. 
LEYOR: You must think Caldonia very insular, Mister Ral. 
RAL: Oh, no, no, not at all. Not at all. On the contrary, I've
respected your world's commitment to pure research. It's just that,
well. 
LEYOR: Go on, please. 
RAL: Well, scholars don't always enjoy administrative demands. And
certainly we've seen here that the administration of the wormhole is 
LEYOR: Yes, I must admit, I have begun to feel some trepidation about
that. 
RAL: Yes. Yes, I'm sure you have, Leyor. I'm sure we all have. Do you
realise that in the next century, the number of ships that will pass 
