TROI MAROUK PICARD RIKER WESLEY DATA

[Observation lounge]

(Marouk is a dignified middle-aged woman) 
PICARD: Their raids have made this sector unsafe. They've ransacked our
research facilities, our trade routes have been disrupted. 
MAROUK: The Gatherers are elusive. We've only managed to capture a
handful of them. But with the Starfleet's help 
PICARD: Hunting them down is not what I am proposing. 
MAROUK: Reconciliation with the Gatherers is impossible. It's been
tried. Every time we've offered amnesty, they've rejected it. 
TROI: When was the last attempt made? 
MAROUK: Eighteen years ago. 
PICARD: Eighteen years? 
MAROUK: For almost a century now, they've been parasites, moving from
star system to star system, living on what they could find or steal. 
PICARD: They're still your people. 
MAROUK: No. Captain, you have to understand our history. A hundred
years ago, before the Gatherers split off from our culture, we were a
savage, violent race. Clans battled clans. Bloody, vengeful feuds that
lasted for generations. But we overcame those ways, all except for the
Gatherers. 
TROI: After a century of wandering, they may be ready to come home. 
PICARD: Despite your progress, you are a divided society, and so it
will remain until the Gatherers return to Acamar. 
MAROUK: The attempt may be futile. 
PICARD: But there is so much to gain and there is so little to lose by
the effort. The problem affects us all. It cannot be ignored.

[Bridge]

PICARD: Sovereign Marouk, welcome to the Bridge. 
MAROUK: Thank you, Captain. 
PICARD: How soon will you be ready to leave Acamar? 
MAROUK: I am ready now, Captain. I need only bring aboard two more
servants. 
RIKER: I'll see to that, and to your accommodations. 
MAROUK: I have reason to believe there is a Gatherer encampment
somewhere in the Hromi Cluster. 
PICARD: Mister Data? 
DATA: The Federation has charted but not explored several class M
planets in that area. Any one of these planets might well serve as a
base. 
PICARD: Mister Crusher, set course for the Hromi Cluster. 
WESLEY: Aye, sir.

