TROI MAROUK PICARD RIKER WESLEY [OC] CRUSHER DATA
ignored little star course outposts rare clans wandering marauders

[Sickbay]

CRUSHER: The two scientists are suffering from
phaser stuns. I'd guess several hits each. 
PICARD: Several? 
CRUSHER: It'll take us a while to bring them around, but they will
recover. We found a sample of blood. It's a rare iron-copper composite,
unique to one humanoid species. The Acamarians. 
PICARD: Acamarians? Then that would suggest the Gatherers. 
DATA: It is a likely hypothesis. The nomadic marauders who refer to
themselves as Gatherers have raided other outposts in neighbouring
sectors. 
RIKER: They've never come out this far before. 
PICARD: Mister Crusher, set course for the Acamar system. 
WESLEY [OC]: Aye, sir.

Captain's log, Stardate 43421.9. In an effort to
put an end to the Gatherer raids, we have come to the Acamar System to
enlist the aid of Marouk, the Sovereign of Acamar Three.

[Observation lounge]

(Marouk is a dignified middle-aged woman) 
PICARD: Their raids have made this sector unsafe. They've ransacked our
research facilities, our trade routes have been disrupted. 
MAROUK: The Gatherers are elusive. We've only managed to capture a
handful of them. But with the Starfleet's help 
PICARD: Hunting them down is not what I am proposing. 
MAROUK: Reconciliation with the Gatherers is impossible. It's been
tried. Every time we've offered amnesty, they've rejected it. 
TROI: When was the last attempt made? 
MAROUK: Eighteen years ago. 
PICARD: Eighteen years? 
MAROUK: For almost a century now, they've been parasites, moving from
star system to star system, living on what they could find or steal. 
PICARD: They're still your people. 
MAROUK: No. Captain, you have to understand our history. A hundred
years ago, before the Gatherers split off from our culture, we were a
savage, violent race. Clans battled clans. Bloody, vengeful feuds that
lasted for generations. But we overcame those ways, all except for the
Gatherers. 
TROI: After a century of wandering, they may be ready to come home. 
PICARD: Despite your progress, you are a divided society, and so it
will remain until the Gatherers return to Acamar. 
MAROUK: The attempt may be futile. 
PICARD: But there is so much to gain and there is so little to lose by
the effort. The problem affects us all. It cannot be ignored.

