RIKER CHORGAN MAROUK PICARD BRULL COMPUTER CRUSHER DATA
microbes slavery spent born levels putting blood prisoner ship

[Chorgan's ship]

PICARD: Chorgan, this is Sovereign Marouk. 
CHORGAN: You may sit. 
PICARD: Chorgan, I think you will find Marouk's proposal 
CHORGAN: You know, Picard, I could take you prisoner. Oh, don't worry,
I've no intention of doing so. I know what trouble it's been for you to
get here, and I am curious why. 
PICARD: Then let's proceed. 
MAROUK: Quite simply, I am proposing amnesty for every Gatherer. 
CHORGAN: Amnesty? You mean slavery. 
BRULL: Chorgan, if you want to know what I think 
CHORGAN: I don't. Say what you came to say, though I doubt that I'm
going to believe you. 
MAROUK: I didn't believe this very persuasive Federation Captain when
he suggested that we could reconcile our differences. I'm convinced now
it's the right thing, not just for you, but for us too. We need you
back. I've brought some Acamarian brandy. I'm sure it's been a long
time. 
(Yuta serves the glasses) 
CHORGAN: No! You have spent a century hunting us down. 
PICARD: She is trying to put an end to all that. 
CHORGAN: Yes, by luring us back and putting us in prison. 
MAROUK: No, by accepting you back as free men. 
CHORGAN: Will you feed and clothe us, too? 
MAROUK: No, of course I won't. What I will do is give you the means to
feed and clothe yourselves. We've set aside some land and you can use
it to 
CHORGAN: Land? Do we look like farmers to you? 
MAROUK: Then don't farm. Use the land as you wish. It is yours. And the
moment you set foot on it, you'll be better off than you are today. You
won't be running any longer. 
CHORGAN: We will need autonomy. 
MAROUK: Autonomy? 
PICARD: Sovereign, we can at least acknowledge that Chorgan appears
willing to discuss your offer. 
MAROUK: There are many levels of autonomy. Certainly your region would
have certain rights. 
CHORGAN: Yes, and those rights will be spelled out before I agree to
anything.

[Bridge]

DATA: Commander, I'm afraid the only entry we have
on Volnoth in the Acamarian database is a birth record. 
RIKER: Probably one of the last of the Gatherers to be born on their
planet. 
CRUSHER: Commander? I've been digging through the medical database from
Acamar Three for hours, and I have found another victim of the same
microvirus that killed Volnoth. But only one. Fifty three years ago, a
Gatherer named Penthor-Mul. 
RIKER: Data? Anything in your file on Penthor-Mul? 
DATA: Yes, sir. He was a member of the Lornak clan. He was captured
while leading a Gatherer raid on an Acamarian outpost. He died of a
heart attack before his trial ended. 
RIKER: Display Volnoth's birth record again. 
CRUSHER: Lornak. The same clan. 
RIKER: The only two recorded deaths by this microvirus both from the
same clan. What does that tell us, Doctor? 
CRUSHER: If these microbes were engineered for murder, I'd say somebody
could be going after a whole family. 
DATA: Commander, Chorgan, the present leader of the Gatherers, is also
from the Lornak
clan. 
RIKER: I want to know just how this clan was involved in the Acamarian
blood feuds, and I'd like to know any clue as to who their enemies
were. How could this virus have been transmitted, Doctor? 
CRUSHER: More ways than I can count. And it's perfectly safe to the
carrier as long as he doesn't have the same DNA patterns. 
RIKER: Tailor made for their enemies. 
DATA: Commander, eighty years ago the Lornaks massacred a rival clan,
the Tralestas. It ended a feud that had lasted for two hundred years. 
RIKER: Ended it? 
DATA: According to these records, there were no survivors. The
Tralestas were annihilated. 
CRUSHER: Something tells me they weren't all been wiped out. 
RIKER: There must be a missing link here. 
CRUSHER: Computer, any members of the Acamarian delegation from the
Tralesta clan? 
COMPUTER: Clan affiliation is not within provided records. 
DATA: Sir, I believe I have found a correlation between the two deaths.
Your missing link. That is Penthor-Mul being led from his trial. 
(a still image on the monitor) 
RIKER: I don't see the connection. 
DATA: Behind him and to the left, sir. 
RIKER: Computer, scan left and magnify. 
DATA: The computer can extrapolate and reconstruct the rest of the
face, sir. 
RIKER: Do it. 
(It is Yuta) 

CRUSHER: But that photograph was taken over fifty years ago. 
RIKER: Fifty three years ago, and she hasn't aged a day.

