RIKER LAFORGE WORF PICARD SETAL COMPUTER HADEN CRUSHER DATA

[Sickbay]

(Beverly is treating Setal's wounds) 
SETAL: I set the auto-destruct sequencer before I left the ship. 
RIKER: Why? 
SETAL: Wouldn't you? To prevent your ship from being captured? 
RIKER: Excuse me for being a little confused, Setal, but I thought you
were defecting. 
SETAL: I am not a traitor. All you can see is the opportunity to
exploit me. The Federation credo, exploitation. You couldn't get aboard
my ship fast enough. Strip it down. What secrets might it reveal that
we can use? You're a short sighted people. Can't you understand? I came
to stop a war. 
CRUSHER: If you could just hold still? With your metabolism, this will
heal in a few moments. 
SETAL: Thank you, Doctor. How fortunate you know something of Romulan
medicine. 
CRUSHER: Yes. I had a chance to gain some experience recently. 
SETAL: Ah, yes. The incident at Galorndon Core. The two officers. 
WORF: You are aware of a great deal for a logistics clerk. 
SETAL: It was common knowledge. I can show you my rating code. 
WORF: Forged credentials are a simple matter for a spy. 
SETAL: How do you allow Klingon pahtk to walk around in a Starfleet
uniform? 
WORF: You are lucky this is not a Klingon ship. We know how to deal
with spies. 
SETAL: Remove this tohzah from my sight. 
RIKER: Your knowledge of Klingon curses is impressive. But as a Romulan
might say, only a veruul would use such language in public. Mister
Worf, please see to the security arrangements for our guest's stay. 
WORF: Aye, sir. 
(Worf leaves) 
RIKER: You find something amusing? 
SETAL: Lieutenant Worf. I like him. To be more accurate, I understand
him. A warrior, proud, fearless, living only for combat. Exactly the
type that will get us all killed, if we're not careful.

[Guest quarters]

RIKER: This is the food station. You can reach me
through the comm. panel. Later, we'd like to ask you a few more
questions. 
(Riker leaves) 
SETAL: Computer, water. 
COMPUTER: Temperature? 
SETAL: Twelve onkians. 
COMPUTER: This system is calibrated to the Celsius metric system. 
SETAL: Any temperature at all on the cold side of whatever your system
is. 
(He takes a sip, has a quick look around, then sits on the bed and
takes an orange disc from his boot)

[Bridge]

DATA: There is no unusual activity in the Nelvana
System, sir. 
PICARD: Let's isolate and magnify that system. 
DATA: Nothing on the sensors. 
PICARD: It is hard to believe in what one cannot see. And yet
conceivably, with their cloaking technology, a fleet of Romulan
warships could be passing before our eyes. There must be some way to
neutralise this advantage. 
COMPUTER: Captain Picard, priority one message from Starfleet coming in
on secured channel. 
PICARD: In my Ready room. Computer, delay time? 
COMPUTER: Two hours, twenty two minute delay from time of transmission 
[Ready room]

COMPUTER: At Starfleet Command on Lya Three. 
PICARD: Computer, key access four one two mark eight zero. Picard,
Jean-Luc. Starfleet priority code Gamma. Decode. Begin message. 
HADEN [on monitor]: Captain, we have received an official protest from
the Romulan Empire demanding the return of your defector. Obviously, we
are refusing to comply. I join in your scepticism, but if it is a
deception, the Romulans are certainly making a good show of it. The
Federation Council has convened in emergency session. There is no doubt
in my mind that this will eventually fall on your shoulders, Jean-Luc.
You've got him. You must decide if he's telling the truth. For now, I
suggest you proceed along the Neutral Zone border toward a Federation
position proximate to Nelvana Three. 
PICARD: Picard to Lieutenant Worf. 
WORF [OC]: Yes, Captain. 
PICARD: Please come to my Ready room. 
WORF [OC]: Aye, sir. On my way.

[Bridge]

LAFORGE: Slow playback. Display engine logs and
power data of both vessels. Now watch what happens at zero nine five
four three three on the clock. The scout has sustained engine damage,
forcing him to slow to point six one five impulse power. The warship
should overtake him, but it doesn't. Now, just two point six seconds
later, the warbird slows to precisely the same speed. Three times,
three speed fluctuations. The warship kept its distance every time. I
don't think they wanted to catch up. 
CRUSHER: And yet they fired at the scout ship. They could have killed
him. 
DATA: Not necessarily, Doctor. The Romulans have the same capability to
direct the impact of their weapons as we do. 
PICARD: Is there a possibility the wound could be self-inflicted? 
CRUSHER: They're very bad burns. I hardly think 
PICARD: A possibility. 
(She nods) 
Captain's log, Stardate 43463.7. We're holding a
position at the Neutral Zone border proximate to Nelvana Three. If our
guest is telling the truth, there are twenty one hours left before the
Romulan base becomes functional.

