TROI LAFORGE WORF PICARD SETAL RIKER COMPUTER HADEN CRUSHER DATA

[Bridge]

LAFORGE: Slow playback. Display engine logs and
power data of both vessels. Now watch what happens at zero nine five
four three three on the clock. The scout has sustained engine damage,
forcing him to slow to point six one five impulse power. The warship
should overtake him, but it doesn't. Now, just two point six seconds
later, the warbird slows to precisely the same speed. Three times,
three speed fluctuations. The warship kept its distance every time. I
don't think they wanted to catch up. 
CRUSHER: And yet they fired at the scout ship. They could have killed
him. 
DATA: Not necessarily, Doctor. The Romulans have the same capability to
direct the impact of their weapons as we do. 
PICARD: Is there a possibility the wound could be self-inflicted? 
CRUSHER: They're very bad burns. I hardly think 
PICARD: A possibility. 
(She nods) 
Captain's log, Stardate 43463.7. We're holding a
position at the Neutral Zone border proximate to Nelvana Three. If our
guest is telling the truth, there are twenty one hours left before the
Romulan base becomes functional.

[Ready room]

HADEN [on monitor]: The Monitor and the Hood are
headed in your direction, though they will arrive too late to be of
assistance. Warnings have gone out to all outposts along the border as
well as several independent vessels in nearby sectors.
No one here wants a war, Captain. But we are prepared to take them on
if that's what they want. All Federation starships have been placed on
Yellow Alert. 
PICARD: Come. 
DATA: You wanted to see me, Captain? 
PICARD: Yes, Data. I want you to prepare a class one probe. Set the
sensors for maximum scan. I want every metre of Nelvana Three
monitored. 
DATA: I will start my calibrations, sir. 
PICARD: Data? 
DATA: Is there something else you require of me, Captain? 
PICARD: Your clarity of thought. Your objectivity, as always. Sit down.
Data, it's very possible we are about to go to war. The repercussions
of what we do during the next twenty four hours may be felt for years
to come. I want you to keep a record of these events, so that history
will have the benefit of a dispassionate view. 
DATA: I will begin immediately, sir. Is that all? 
PICARD: How is the crew's spirit? 
DATA: They are concerned, of course, Captain, but confident. Do you not
see that, sir? 
PICARD: Data, unlike King Henry, it is not easy for me to disguise
myself and walk among my troops. That'll be all. 
(Data leaves) 
PICARD: Now, if these men do not die well, it will be a black matter
for the king that led them to it. 

[Debriefing room]

SETAL: Why must we waste time playing this
ridiculous game? 
TROI: There's more here than you're telling us. You're forcing yourself
to hold back. 
SETAL: I have told you everything relevant about Nelvana Three. 
TROI: I'm not talking about the base. 
SETAL: The base is all that matters. 
RIKER: You're lying, Setal. 
SETAL: Go to Nelvana Three, and you will see. 
RIKER: We're not going anywhere until we get to the truth You're a spy,
aren't you? 
SETAL: No. 
RIKER: Then prove it. You can begin by telling me something about the
location and strength of the Romulan fleet. 
SETAL: I don't know it. 
RIKER: You're a logistics officer. 
SETAL: For one sector only. 
RIKER: Who's your superior officer? 
SETAL: Admiral Jarok. 
RIKER: The location of the Romulan bases along the Neutral Zone? 
SETAL: I don't know. 
RIKER: In your sector? 
SETAL: Irrelevant. 
RIKER: The number of troops under your admiral's command? 
SETAL: Irrelevant. Irrelevant. 
RIKER: I guess you're right. It's not worth playing this game. 
SETAL: What a fool I've been. To come looking for courage in a lair of
cowards.

[Bridge]

COMPUTER: Captain Picard, priority message from
security officer, Klingon vessel Bortas. 
PICARD: Lieutenant Worf, will you handle this at security station, deck
nine. 
WORF: Aye, sir. 
(Worf leaves) 
DATA: Sensors are configured for planetary probe, sir. Ready for
launch. 
PICARD: Proceed. 
DATA: Probe on course. Sensors are functioning. 
PICARD: Coordinate your analysis with Mister La Forge. I want this
report with dispatch. 
[Engineering]

LAFORGE: I don't know, Data. My gut tells me we
ought to be listening to what this guy's trying to tell us. 
DATA: Your gut? 
LAFORGE: It's just a feeling, you know? An instinct. Intuition. 
DATA: But those qualities would interfere with rational judgment, would
they not? 
LAFORGE: You're right. Sometimes they do. 
DATA: Then why not rely strictly on the facts? 
LAFORGE: Because you just can't rely on the plain and simple facts.
Sometimes they lie. 
DATA: They can lead to wrong conclusions, but they cannot lie. 
LAFORGE: What do you think? Is he a defector or not? 
DATA: The facts to date would lead to an objective conclusion that he
is not. 
LAFORGE: Somehow I think we're going to catch the Romulans with their
pants down on Nelvana Three, just like he says. 
DATA: With their pants? 
LAFORGE: A metaphor. Catching them in the act. 
DATA: Because your gut tells you so? 
LAFORGE: Exactly. But you can't always go with your gut either. It's a
combination, Data. Right, I'll put it to you this way. All these
feelings that get in the way of human judgment, that confuse the hell
out of us, that make us second guess ourselves, well we need them. We
need them to help us fill in the missing pieces because we almost never
have all the facts. 
DATA: So a person fills in missing pieces of the puzzle with his own
personality, resulting in a conclusion based as much on instinct and
intuition as on fact. 
LAFORGE: Now you're getting it. 
DATA: But what does one do if he has no instinct and intuition? 
LAFORGE: Data. Look at this. The facts just took a left turn.

