RIKER LAFORGE WORF PICARD SETAL COMPUTER CRUSHER DATA

[Transporter room]

RIKER: Energise. 
SETAL: I must see your captain immediately. 
RIKER: We'll take you to Sickbay, after that 
SETAL: This cannot wait. I have information vital to your survival.

Captain's log, Stardate 43462.5. We have beamed
aboard an apparent Romulan defector, who claims to be a low ranking
logistics officer with extraordinary information about a secret
offensive.

[Observation lounge]

SETAL: The humiliating defeat at the Battle of
Cheron has not been forgotten. The new leaders have vowed to discard
the treaty and claim the Neutral Zone. Nelvana Three is just the first
step. 
RIKER: You're saying an entire base has already been established there?

SETAL: In forty-eight hours, the reactor core will be online. 
RIKER: So the Federation sensors that monitor the Neutral Zone just
missed it? 
SETAL: It would seem so. In two days, a fleet of Romulan warbirds will
be within striking distance of fifteen Federation sectors. 
WORF: The Federation will not permit that. 
SETAL: Then it is war that we're talking about, isn't it? Destroy the
base now and the threat is over. 
PICARD: Well, I'm sure you are fatigued by your ordeal and you require
medical attention. Lieutenant Worf, will you accompany Sublieutenant
Setal to the Sickbay. We will attend to your quarters. 
SETAL: No doubt you will wish to question me further. 
PICARD: No doubt. 
(Worf, Setal and guard leave) 
RIKER: He tells a hell of a story. 
PICARD: You don't believe it? 
RIKER: The Empire knows that we'd never allow them to maintain a base
within the Neutral Zone. 
DATA: Commander, that would not be an atypical Romulan ploy. In their
long history of war, the Romulans have rarely attacked first. They
prefer to test their enemy's resolve. 
RIKER: I think he's a plant to draw us into the Neutral Zone. Then
we'll look like the aggressors. 
PICARD: And the Romulans would have a legitimate excuse for responding
in force. 
RIKER: Exactly. 
DATA: That would also not be an atypical Romulan ploy, sir. 
PICARD: It's always a chess game with them, isn't it? 
LAFORGE: Well, at least he's given us the chance to get a look at some
Romulan technology close up. 
PICARD: Mister La Forge, you will lead the away team over to the scout.
Commander, you and Counsellor Troi will conduct Setal's interrogation. 
DATA: Captain, permission to observe the interrogation? 
PICARD: No, Mister Data. I need you on the Bridge with me. There is
much to be done. We have less than forty eight hours to prevent a war.
Or perhaps to start one. This will depend on establishing the truth of 
(And the scout ship goes Ka-boom!)

[Sickbay]

(Beverly is treating Setal's wounds) 
SETAL: I set the auto-destruct sequencer before I left the ship. 
RIKER: Why? 
SETAL: Wouldn't you? To prevent your ship from being captured? 
RIKER: Excuse me for being a little confused, Setal, but I thought you
were defecting. 
SETAL: I am not a traitor. All you can see is the opportunity to
exploit me. The Federation credo, exploitation. You couldn't get aboard
my ship fast enough. Strip it down. What secrets might it reveal that
we can use? You're a short sighted people. Can't you understand? I came
to stop a war. 
CRUSHER: If you could just hold still? With your metabolism, this will
heal in a few moments. 
SETAL: Thank you, Doctor. How fortunate you know something of Romulan
medicine. 
CRUSHER: Yes. I had a chance to gain some experience recently. 
SETAL: Ah, yes. The incident at Galorndon Core. The two officers. 
WORF: You are aware of a great deal for a logistics clerk. 
SETAL: It was common knowledge. I can show you my rating code. 
WORF: Forged credentials are a simple matter for a spy. 
SETAL: How do you allow Klingon pahtk to walk around in a Starfleet
uniform? 
WORF: You are lucky this is not a Klingon ship. We know how to deal
with spies. 
SETAL: Remove this tohzah from my sight. 
RIKER: Your knowledge of Klingon curses is impressive. But as a Romulan
might say, only a veruul would use such language in public. Mister
Worf, please see to the security arrangements for our guest's stay. 
WORF: Aye, sir. 
(Worf leaves) 
RIKER: You find something amusing? 
SETAL: Lieutenant Worf. I like him. To be more accurate, I understand
him. A warrior, proud, fearless, living only for combat. Exactly the
type that will get us all killed, if we're not careful.

[Guest quarters]

RIKER: This is the food station. You can reach me
through the comm. panel. Later, we'd like to ask you a few more
questions. 
(Riker leaves) 
SETAL: Computer, water. 
COMPUTER: Temperature? 
SETAL: Twelve onkians. 
COMPUTER: This system is calibrated to the Celsius metric system. 
SETAL: Any temperature at all on the cold side of whatever your system
is. 
(He takes a sip, has a quick look around, then sits on the bed and
takes an orange disc from his boot)

[Bridge]

DATA: There is no unusual activity in the Nelvana
System, sir. 
PICARD: Let's isolate and magnify that system. 
DATA: Nothing on the sensors. 
PICARD: It is hard to believe in what one cannot see. And yet
conceivably, with their cloaking technology, a fleet of Romulan
warships could be passing before our eyes. There must be some way to
neutralise this advantage. 
COMPUTER: Captain Picard, priority one message from Starfleet coming in
on secured channel. 
PICARD: In my Ready room. Computer, delay time? 
COMPUTER: Two hours, twenty two minute delay from time of transmission 
