LAFORGE WORF PICARD SETAL COMPUTER DATA

[Bridge]

COMPUTER: Captain Picard, priority message from
security officer, Klingon vessel Bortas. 
PICARD: Lieutenant Worf, will you handle this at security station, deck
nine. 
WORF: Aye, sir. 
(Worf leaves) 
DATA: Sensors are configured for planetary probe, sir. Ready for
launch. 
PICARD: Proceed. 
DATA: Probe on course. Sensors are functioning. 
PICARD: Coordinate your analysis with Mister La Forge. I want this
report with dispatch. 
[Engineering]

LAFORGE: I don't know, Data. My gut tells me we
ought to be listening to what this guy's trying to tell us. 
DATA: Your gut? 
LAFORGE: It's just a feeling, you know? An instinct. Intuition. 
DATA: But those qualities would interfere with rational judgment, would
they not? 
LAFORGE: You're right. Sometimes they do. 
DATA: Then why not rely strictly on the facts? 
LAFORGE: Because you just can't rely on the plain and simple facts.
Sometimes they lie. 
DATA: They can lead to wrong conclusions, but they cannot lie. 
LAFORGE: What do you think? Is he a defector or not? 
DATA: The facts to date would lead to an objective conclusion that he
is not. 
LAFORGE: Somehow I think we're going to catch the Romulans with their
pants down on Nelvana Three, just like he says. 
DATA: With their pants? 
LAFORGE: A metaphor. Catching them in the act. 
DATA: Because your gut tells you so? 
LAFORGE: Exactly. But you can't always go with your gut either. It's a
combination, Data. Right, I'll put it to you this way. All these
feelings that get in the way of human judgment, that confuse the hell
out of us, that make us second guess ourselves, well we need them. We
need them to help us fill in the missing pieces because we almost never
have all the facts. 
DATA: So a person fills in missing pieces of the puzzle with his own
personality, resulting in a conclusion based as much on instinct and
intuition as on fact. 
LAFORGE: Now you're getting it. 
DATA: But what does one do if he has no instinct and intuition? 
LAFORGE: Data. Look at this. The facts just took a left turn.

[Ready room]

DATA: As the probe went into orbit around Nelvana
Three, it began picking up low level subspace radio emissions. 
PICARD: Could they be naturally occurring? 
DATA: No, sir. The patterns are clearly artificial. 
LAFORGE: The signal was so faint our ship sensors couldn't read it from
this distance. 
PICARD: Can we decode it? 
LAFORGE: We've tried. It's probably Romulan but we can't be sure. We've
also picked up ionisation disturbances. 
DATA: Cloaked Romulan ships could produce that effect. 
PICARD: What about the planet surface? 
LAFORGE: Reading nothing but barren rock. I don't know. They might be
able to hide a base from our probe. Its capabilities are limited. The
only way we'll know for sure is if we go and take a look for ourselves.

PICARD: That'll be all, gentlemen.

[Ten Forward]

(Data is at a table, staring at Setal sitting by
the window) 
SETAL: I take it you have never seen a Romulan before. 
DATA: That would be an incorrect assumption. 
SETAL: Then why do you invade my privacy? 
DATA: I was attempting to ascertain what my guts tell me about you. 
SETAL: You're the android. I know a host of Romulan cyberneticists that
would love to be this close to you. 
DATA: I do not find that concept particularly appealing. 
SETAL: Nor should you. 
DATA: I am told by various crewmembers that this viewport is their
favourite on the ship. 
SETAL: I thought it would bring me some comfort. But these are not my
stars. Even the heavens are denied to me here. Synthetic swill. I don't
suppose your food terminals would be capable of producing a Romulan
ale? 
DATA: I am afraid they would require the molecular structure of the
beverage in question. And, as you are no doubt aware, our knowledge of
your planet is quite limited. 
SETAL: The loss is yours. For I have visited over a hundred different
worlds, and none possessed the awesome beauty of Romulus. 
DATA: Am I correct in assuming you regret your decision to come here? 
SETAL: What I did had to be done. But to never again see the firefalls
of Gath Gal'thong, and the spires of my home as they rise above the
Apnex Sea at dawn. It's a bitter thing to be exiled from your home. 
DATA: It does appear unlikely you will ever be allowed to return to
your planet. 
SETAL: The cold reaction of an android. 
DATA: But perhaps we can bring Romulus to you.

[Corridor]

COMPUTER: Programme complete. 
DATA: Run programme. 
(the holodeck doors open) 
DATA: After you.

