RIKER LAFORGE WORF HADEN [on monitor] JAROK PICARD SETAL LAFORGE [OC] DATA
think peace damned command way smile evidence irrefutable war

[Holodeck]

(It is a landscape of bizarre rock formations under
a massive moon, and its smaller companion) 
SETAL: The valley of Chula. I know it well. 
DATA: You are free to stay here as long as you wish. 
SETAL: I no longer live here. Turn it off. 
DATA: Cancel programme. 
SETAL: This. This is my home now. My future. I have sacrificed
everything. It must not be in vain. Arrange a meeting between myself
and Captain Picard. Tell him Admiral Jarok wants to see him.

[Ready room]

HADEN [on monitor]: Captain, we have confirmed that
you are holding Admiral Alidar Jarok. He has been identified as the
commander at the massacre at the Norkan outposts. The Council strongly
advises that you to consider Jarok an unreliable source of information.

PICARD: Bring him in. 
(Setal, now Jarok, enters with a guard) 
PICARD: Ensign, will you wait outside? Have a seat, Admiral Jarok. 
JAROK: Captain, there is no more time. 
PICARD: Admiral, have a seat. You see, I'm just not convinced that you
are telling the truth. 
JAROK: What must I do? 
PICARD: You must convince me. If I had irrefutable evidence? But you
did not bring irrefutable evidence. You brought no evidence at all.
Now, here, you are not the man you claimed to be. Admiral, your
credibility is stretched beyond belief. A Romulan defector is almost a
contradiction in terms. But Admiral Jarok crossing the lines? 
JAROK: I explained my motives to your interrogators. 
PICARD: Yes, yes, yes, yes, yes. Peace in our galaxy. Except, Admiral,
you are not a man of peace. Your military record, what we know of it,
is clear. 
JAROK: which is precisely why I chose an alternate identity here. 
PICARD: The massacres in the Norkan outposts, for example. 
JAROK: What you call massacres were called the Norkan Campaign on my
world, Captain. One world's butcher is another world's hero. Perhaps I
am neither one. 
PICARD: On what basis, Admiral, am I to decide? Your good word? Are you
willing to help us overpower the Romulan B-type warbirds we may
encounter? Are you prepared to help us detect them through their
cloaking shields? You see my problem, Admiral. You ask us for faith in
circumstances which are hardly possible to believe, compounded by lies
and your refusal to tell us all you know. 
JAROK: I cannot betray my people. 
PICARD: You've already betrayed your people, Admiral. You've made your
choices, sir. You're a traitor. Now, if the bitter taste of that is
unpalatable to you, I am truly sorry. But I will not risk the lives of
my crew because you think you can dance on the edge of the Neutral
Zone. You've crossed over, Admiral. You make yourself comfortable with
that. 
JAROK: Do you have any children, Captain Picard? A family? 
PICARD: No. 
JAROK: Then you have sacrificed too much for your career. 
PICARD: Yes, this is all very interesting. 
JAROK: There comes a time in a man's life that you cannot know. When he
looks down at the first smile of his baby girl and realises he must
change the world for her. For all children. It is for her that I am
here. Not to destroy the Romulan Empire, but to save it. For months, I
tried desperately to persuade the High Command that another war would
destroy the Empire. They got tired of my arguments. Finally I was
censured, sent off to command some distant sector. This was my only
recourse. I will never see my child smile again. She will grow up
believing that her father is a traitor. But she will grow up. If you
act, Picard. If we stop the war before it begins 
PICARD: I can't. And I won't. Unless I have unequivocal cooperation.

[Observation lounge]

PICARD: Admiral Jarok has provided me with the
locations, strengths and tactical plans of the Romulan fleet.
Mister La Forge, he is prepared to give you data regarding engines,
weapons and the cloaking systems of the warbird class
starship. But I believe his experience as a field commander will be
more valuable for its strategic sense than in the technical areas. 
LAFORGE: Any edge'll help, Captain. 
PICARD: Don't depend on it. For all we know, he may still be lying, but
we shall find that out soon enough. Number One, set course for Nelvana
Three.

Second officer's log, stardate 43465.2. We have
entered the Neutral Zone in direct violation of the Treaty of Algeron.
Presuming Romulan warships are cloaked and monitoring us, we expect
heavy resistance as we approach Nelvana Three.

[Bridge]

RIKER: Tactical? 
WORF: Nothing on sensors. 
RIKER: I don't like it I would've expected a greeting party. 
PICARD: You echo another noteworthy commander in a similar
circumstances, Number One. A countryman of yours, George Armstrong
Custer when his Seventh Cavalry arrived at the Little Big Horn. 
RIKER: May we have better luck. 
DATA: Approaching Nelvana system. 
PICARD: Engage impulse engines. 
RIKER: Nelvana Three on screen. Still no sign of them on sensors. In a
way, I'd rather be fighting my way this, It's just too damned easy. 
PICARD: Prepare to enter standard orbit. Data? 
DATA: Scanning the planet, sir. No life forms, no power sources, no
weapons systems. 
RIKER: No indication of a base at all? 
DATA: No, sir. 
PICARD: The subspace signal the probe detected? The ionisation
disturbances? 
DATA: I am picking them up, sir, but I cannot identify the source. They
seem to be moving in an orbital path with an eight hundred kilometre
apogee. 
PICARD: Lieutenant Worf, bring the Admiral up here. 
WORF: Aye, sir. 
RIKER: Maybe they abandoned the planet after he defected. 
DATA: There is no scarring on the planet surface that would denote
heavy construction of any kind. 
RIKER: A cloaking device of some sort, to hide the entire base? 
DATA: A cloaking device operating on the surface would be given away by
visible distortion effects. 
(Jarok and his escort enter) 
PICARD: Perhaps you'd care to explain why we're here, Admiral. 
RIKER: There doesn't appear to be a base. 
JAROK: I don't understand. 
PICARD: Nelvana Three, Admiral. No base, no weapons, no sign of any
life at all. 
JAROK: But I saw the tactical communiqus. The records. Timetables for
completion. An entire legion was assigned to the section. 
PICARD: Is it possible they could have been feeding you disinformation?
You said that you had been censured. Reassigned, four months ago. They
knew of your dissatisfaction. Could all this have been to test your
loyalty? 
JAROK: No. No. It's impossible. 
PICARD: They let you escape with an arsenal of worthless secrets. What
other explanation is there? 
RIKER: Permission to withdraw from the Neutral Zone? 
PICARD: At your earliest convenience, Number One. 
RIKER: Helm, bring her round one hundred and eighty degrees. Geordi,
get us out of here. 
LAFORGE [OC]: I hear you, Commander. 
WORF: Two Romulan warships uncloaking. Coordinates 
(He's interrupted by impacts to the shields) 
WORF: Shields holding. 
RIKER: Damage? 
LAFORGE [OC]: Minor damage in the secondary hull. 
[Engineering]

LAFORGE: Power transfer fields may be pinched off. 
