LAFORGE HADEN [on monitor] JAROK PICARD SETAL COMPUTER DATA
worlds help peace orbit evidence command emissions irrefutable grow

[Ready room]

DATA: As the probe went into orbit around Nelvana
Three, it began picking up low level subspace radio emissions. 
PICARD: Could they be naturally occurring? 
DATA: No, sir. The patterns are clearly artificial. 
LAFORGE: The signal was so faint our ship sensors couldn't read it from
this distance. 
PICARD: Can we decode it? 
LAFORGE: We've tried. It's probably Romulan but we can't be sure. We've
also picked up ionisation disturbances. 
DATA: Cloaked Romulan ships could produce that effect. 
PICARD: What about the planet surface? 
LAFORGE: Reading nothing but barren rock. I don't know. They might be
able to hide a base from our probe. Its capabilities are limited. The
only way we'll know for sure is if we go and take a look for ourselves.

PICARD: That'll be all, gentlemen.

[Ten Forward]

(Data is at a table, staring at Setal sitting by
the window) 
SETAL: I take it you have never seen a Romulan before. 
DATA: That would be an incorrect assumption. 
SETAL: Then why do you invade my privacy? 
DATA: I was attempting to ascertain what my guts tell me about you. 
SETAL: You're the android. I know a host of Romulan cyberneticists that
would love to be this close to you. 
DATA: I do not find that concept particularly appealing. 
SETAL: Nor should you. 
DATA: I am told by various crewmembers that this viewport is their
favourite on the ship. 
SETAL: I thought it would bring me some comfort. But these are not my
stars. Even the heavens are denied to me here. Synthetic swill. I don't
suppose your food terminals would be capable of producing a Romulan
ale? 
DATA: I am afraid they would require the molecular structure of the
beverage in question. And, as you are no doubt aware, our knowledge of
your planet is quite limited. 
SETAL: The loss is yours. For I have visited over a hundred different
worlds, and none possessed the awesome beauty of Romulus. 
DATA: Am I correct in assuming you regret your decision to come here? 
SETAL: What I did had to be done. But to never again see the firefalls
of Gath Gal'thong, and the spires of my home as they rise above the
Apnex Sea at dawn. It's a bitter thing to be exiled from your home. 
DATA: It does appear unlikely you will ever be allowed to return to
your planet. 
SETAL: The cold reaction of an android. 
DATA: But perhaps we can bring Romulus to you.

[Corridor]

COMPUTER: Programme complete. 
DATA: Run programme. 
(the holodeck doors open) 
DATA: After you.

[Holodeck]

(It is a landscape of bizarre rock formations under
a massive moon, and its smaller companion) 
SETAL: The valley of Chula. I know it well. 
DATA: You are free to stay here as long as you wish. 
SETAL: I no longer live here. Turn it off. 
DATA: Cancel programme. 
SETAL: This. This is my home now. My future. I have sacrificed
everything. It must not be in vain. Arrange a meeting between myself
and Captain Picard. Tell him Admiral Jarok wants to see him.

[Ready room]

HADEN [on monitor]: Captain, we have confirmed that
you are holding Admiral Alidar Jarok. He has been identified as the
commander at the massacre at the Norkan outposts. The Council strongly
advises that you to consider Jarok an unreliable source of information.

PICARD: Bring him in. 
(Setal, now Jarok, enters with a guard) 
PICARD: Ensign, will you wait outside? Have a seat, Admiral Jarok. 
JAROK: Captain, there is no more time. 
PICARD: Admiral, have a seat. You see, I'm just not convinced that you
are telling the truth. 
JAROK: What must I do? 
PICARD: You must convince me. If I had irrefutable evidence? But you
did not bring irrefutable evidence. You brought no evidence at all.
Now, here, you are not the man you claimed to be. Admiral, your
credibility is stretched beyond belief. A Romulan defector is almost a
contradiction in terms. But Admiral Jarok crossing the lines? 
JAROK: I explained my motives to your interrogators. 
PICARD: Yes, yes, yes, yes, yes. Peace in our galaxy. Except, Admiral,
you are not a man of peace. Your military record, what we know of it,
is clear. 
JAROK: which is precisely why I chose an alternate identity here. 
PICARD: The massacres in the Norkan outposts, for example. 
JAROK: What you call massacres were called the Norkan Campaign on my
world, Captain. One world's butcher is another world's hero. Perhaps I
am neither one. 
PICARD: On what basis, Admiral, am I to decide? Your good word? Are you
willing to help us overpower the Romulan B-type warbirds we may
encounter? Are you prepared to help us detect them through their
cloaking shields? You see my problem, Admiral. You ask us for faith in
circumstances which are hardly possible to believe, compounded by lies
and your refusal to tell us all you know. 
JAROK: I cannot betray my people. 
PICARD: You've already betrayed your people, Admiral. You've made your
choices, sir. You're a traitor. Now, if the bitter taste of that is
unpalatable to you, I am truly sorry. But I will not risk the lives of
my crew because you think you can dance on the edge of the Neutral
Zone. You've crossed over, Admiral. You make yourself comfortable with
that. 
JAROK: Do you have any children, Captain Picard? A family? 
PICARD: No. 
JAROK: Then you have sacrificed too much for your career. 
PICARD: Yes, this is all very interesting. 
JAROK: There comes a time in a man's life that you cannot know. When he
looks down at the first smile of his baby girl and realises he must
change the world for her. For all children. It is for her that I am
here. Not to destroy the Romulan Empire, but to save it. For months, I
tried desperately to persuade the High Command that another war would
destroy the Empire. They got tired of my arguments. Finally I was
censured, sent off to command some distant sector. This was my only
recourse. I will never see my child smile again. She will grow up
believing that her father is a traitor. But she will grow up. If you
act, Picard. If we stop the war before it begins 
PICARD: I can't. And I won't. Unless I have unequivocal cooperation.

