TROI LAFORGE WORF PICARD SETAL RIKER COMPUTER HADEN CRUSHER DATA

[Bridge]

DATA: There is no unusual activity in the Nelvana
System, sir. 
PICARD: Let's isolate and magnify that system. 
DATA: Nothing on the sensors. 
PICARD: It is hard to believe in what one cannot see. And yet
conceivably, with their cloaking technology, a fleet of Romulan
warships could be passing before our eyes. There must be some way to
neutralise this advantage. 
COMPUTER: Captain Picard, priority one message from Starfleet coming in
on secured channel. 
PICARD: In my Ready room. Computer, delay time? 
COMPUTER: Two hours, twenty two minute delay from time of transmission 
[Ready room]

COMPUTER: At Starfleet Command on Lya Three. 
PICARD: Computer, key access four one two mark eight zero. Picard,
Jean-Luc. Starfleet priority code Gamma. Decode. Begin message. 
HADEN [on monitor]: Captain, we have received an official protest from
the Romulan Empire demanding the return of your defector. Obviously, we
are refusing to comply. I join in your scepticism, but if it is a
deception, the Romulans are certainly making a good show of it. The
Federation Council has convened in emergency session. There is no doubt
in my mind that this will eventually fall on your shoulders, Jean-Luc.
You've got him. You must decide if he's telling the truth. For now, I
suggest you proceed along the Neutral Zone border toward a Federation
position proximate to Nelvana Three. 
PICARD: Picard to Lieutenant Worf. 
WORF [OC]: Yes, Captain. 
PICARD: Please come to my Ready room. 
WORF [OC]: Aye, sir. On my way.

[Bridge]

LAFORGE: Slow playback. Display engine logs and
power data of both vessels. Now watch what happens at zero nine five
four three three on the clock. The scout has sustained engine damage,
forcing him to slow to point six one five impulse power. The warship
should overtake him, but it doesn't. Now, just two point six seconds
later, the warbird slows to precisely the same speed. Three times,
three speed fluctuations. The warship kept its distance every time. I
don't think they wanted to catch up. 
CRUSHER: And yet they fired at the scout ship. They could have killed
him. 
DATA: Not necessarily, Doctor. The Romulans have the same capability to
direct the impact of their weapons as we do. 
PICARD: Is there a possibility the wound could be self-inflicted? 
CRUSHER: They're very bad burns. I hardly think 
PICARD: A possibility. 
(She nods) 
Captain's log, Stardate 43463.7. We're holding a
position at the Neutral Zone border proximate to Nelvana Three. If our
guest is telling the truth, there are twenty one hours left before the
Romulan base becomes functional.

[Ready room]

HADEN [on monitor]: The Monitor and the Hood are
headed in your direction, though they will arrive too late to be of
assistance. Warnings have gone out to all outposts along the border as
well as several independent vessels in nearby sectors.
No one here wants a war, Captain. But we are prepared to take them on
if that's what they want. All Federation starships have been placed on
Yellow Alert. 
PICARD: Come. 
DATA: You wanted to see me, Captain? 
PICARD: Yes, Data. I want you to prepare a class one probe. Set the
sensors for maximum scan. I want every metre of Nelvana Three
monitored. 
DATA: I will start my calibrations, sir. 
PICARD: Data? 
DATA: Is there something else you require of me, Captain? 
PICARD: Your clarity of thought. Your objectivity, as always. Sit down.
Data, it's very possible we are about to go to war. The repercussions
of what we do during the next twenty four hours may be felt for years
to come. I want you to keep a record of these events, so that history
will have the benefit of a dispassionate view. 
DATA: I will begin immediately, sir. Is that all? 
PICARD: How is the crew's spirit? 
DATA: They are concerned, of course, Captain, but confident. Do you not
see that, sir? 
PICARD: Data, unlike King Henry, it is not easy for me to disguise
myself and walk among my troops. That'll be all. 
(Data leaves) 
PICARD: Now, if these men do not die well, it will be a black matter
for the king that led them to it. 

[Debriefing room]

SETAL: Why must we waste time playing this
ridiculous game? 
TROI: There's more here than you're telling us. You're forcing yourself
to hold back. 
SETAL: I have told you everything relevant about Nelvana Three. 
TROI: I'm not talking about the base. 
SETAL: The base is all that matters. 
RIKER: You're lying, Setal. 
SETAL: Go to Nelvana Three, and you will see. 
RIKER: We're not going anywhere until we get to the truth You're a spy,
aren't you? 
SETAL: No. 
RIKER: Then prove it. You can begin by telling me something about the
location and strength of the Romulan fleet. 
SETAL: I don't know it. 
RIKER: You're a logistics officer. 
SETAL: For one sector only. 
RIKER: Who's your superior officer? 
SETAL: Admiral Jarok. 
RIKER: The location of the Romulan bases along the Neutral Zone? 
SETAL: I don't know. 
RIKER: In your sector? 
SETAL: Irrelevant. 
RIKER: The number of troops under your admiral's command? 
SETAL: Irrelevant. Irrelevant. 
RIKER: I guess you're right. It's not worth playing this game. 
SETAL: What a fool I've been. To come looking for courage in a lair of
cowards.

