ROGA TROI PICARD RIKER CRUSHER DATA
life ll took met result way inherent sensors day

[Ready room]

TROI: There's a duality in the man. It's hard to
describe. He's aware of his crimes. In fact, they trouble him deeply. 
PICARD: Counsellor. 
TROI: He's intelligent, thoughtful, typically Angosian. I know what
he's done, but when I'm with him I cannot believe he is randomly and
deliberately violent. in fact, inherently, he has a non-violent
personality. 
PICARD: Counsellor, it took five men to restrain him and he took apart
half of the Transporter Room in the process. 
TROI: I'm not opening the door for him, Captain. I can only tell you
that I sense something very unusual about him. Something that is not
inherent to a criminal personality. 
PICARD: In a few hours, I'll be turning him over to the Angosians, and
I'll be happy to do it. 
TROI: I understand.

[Bridge]

TROI: Data, do we have a link up to the Angosian
central computer? 
DATA: Yes, Counsellor. We are copying records for Federation inspection
pursuant to their application for admittance. 
TROI: Can I see a police record on Roga Danar? 
(search negative) 
DATA: There is no police record. 
TROI: That's impossible. He's been in prison. 
DATA: Lunar Five is a military prison facility. 
TROI: Military? He's a soldier ? 
DATA: That may provide an explanation for the tactics he was able to
use against us when we tried to capture him. 
TROI: It doesn't say here what he was arrested for. Call up his
military record. 
DATA: He served in many campaigns during the Tarsian War, received two
promotions, to the rank of Subhadar. A very honourable tour of duty 
TROI: What was this man's crime?

[Brig]

TROI: I've learned you are a soldier. 
ROGA: I was a soldier. 
TROI: Why were you put in prison? 
ROGA: Obviously, because I am a threat to society. 
TROI: There's no police record. What did you do? 
ROGA: Everything they asked me to do. That's why I became such a
threat. 
TROI: I don't understand. 
ROGA: Why are you bothering to try, Counsellor? 
TROI: Because I want to help, if I can. 
ROGA: Unlock the door. 
TROI: You are a non-violent man, yet you committed acts of excessive
violence. 
ROGA: You can learn to do it if you have to. 
TROI: Did you have to? 
ROGA: It was war. 
TROI: So it started with the war? 
ROGA: It started the day I volunteered, Counsellor. The day I began
training. The day I met my first instructor. And he also called himself
a counsellor.

[Observation lounge]

TROI: Roga Danar was an idealistic young man who
answered his people's call to service. He joined the military to fight
for the Angosian way of life. What he didn't realise was that by doing
so he would have to give up that way of life for ever. He's not the
same man who left home to go to war. He's been through intense
psychological manipulation and biochemical modifications. 
CRUSHER: At Troi's request I examined him. His cell structure has been
significantly altered. They used a
combination of cryptobiolin, triclenidil, macrospentol and a few things
I can't even recognise. 
RIKER: Was he a prisoner of war? Who did this to him? 
TROI: His own government. He's been programmed to be the perfect
soldier. He can be absolutely normal, but when
a danger is perceived, the programming clicks in and takes over.
Memory, strength, intelligence, reflexes, all become
enhanced. He's conditioned to survive at any cost. 
CRUSHER: One of the new substances in his cellular structure even
shields electrical impulses. 
DATA: Perhaps that would explain why our sensors did not detect him. 
PICARD: Why was he assigned to the Lunar Five facility? 
TROI: He committed no crime. He says he was ordered there with others
like him. When the first soldiers returned to
Angosia, they had trouble. The rules changed too quickly. A lost temper
could result in murder. 
DATA: Counsellor, did no one try to adjust their programming? 
TROI: They were just exiled to Lunar Five. 
PICARD: Lunar Five, an orbiting gulag.

