ROGA TROI WORF WAGNOR [on viewscreen] WORF [OC] RIKER O'BRIEN PICARD DATA O'BRIEN [OC]
energising improved means anticipate eighty face simultaneous incapable vessel

[Brig]

ROGA: Were you built for combat, android? 
DATA: No. But my programme does include military strategy. That is how
I was able to anticipate your final tactic and capture you. 
ROGA: You did that? Perhaps you would be better at combat than you
think. 
DATA: Except that I am not programmed to kill. 
ROGA: My improved reflexes have allowed me to kill eighty four times.
And my improved memory lets me remember each of those eighty four
faces. Can you understand how that feels? 
DATA: I am incapable of any feeling. 
ROGA: Why, then I envy you. 
(Picard and Troi enter) 
TROI: Roga, this is Captain Picard. 
ROGA: Captain. 
PICARD: Mister Danar, I'm transferring you to Angosian security.
They're en route. They will arrive shortly. I wanted to tell you I have
no choice. The Prime Minister insisted and we have no right to refuse. 
ROGA: You would be foolish to consider it otherwise, Captain, for they
are very correct. I am dangerous. There is no place for me in a
civilised society. 
TROI: I do not believe that. 
DATA: Nor do I. 
PICARD: I respect my officers' judgements. I wish I could help further.
If a way appears to me, I will. 
ROGA: I appreciate your telling me that face to face. 
PICARD: I thought you deserved that much. 
ROGA: And you deserve to know that I must use whatever means I can to
escape. 
WORF [OC]: Captain, the Angosian transport vessel has arrived. 
PICARD: Inform them the transfer will take place shortly. Picard out.
Mister Data, to the Bridge please. 
(Picard leaves) 
ROGA: Take care of yourself, android. I enjoyed our talk. 
DATA: I too. 
(Data leaves) 
TROI: Perhaps when this planet becomes a member of the Federation,
we'll be able 
ROGA: I will not be there to see it, Counsellor. Because even with this
overwhelming demand to survive that they've built into my soul, I would
rather die than return to Lunar Five.

[Bridge]

WAGNOR [on viewscreen]: Captain Picard, we're ready
to receive the prisoner. Now transmitting the coordinates of our
holding cell. 
DATA: Coordinates received, sir. 
PICARD: Stand by for transport. Picard out. Mister Worf, have all
security precautions been taken? 
WORF: Release of the force field and activation of the transporter will
be virtually simultaneous. There will only be a point one second
difference between them. 
RIKER: Even Danar can't move that fast. 
WORF: There will be a full security contingent present. 
PICARD: Proceed.

[Transporter room]

O'BRIEN: Transporter room one to Lieutenant Worf.
We're ready, sir.

[Brig]

O'BRIEN [OC]: Energising. 
(But Danar tries to break out of the transporter beam) 
WORF: O'Brien, increase transporter power. 
(Danar gets a hand out of the beam)

