ROGA TROI OBRIEN WORF PICARD RIKER NAYROK WAGNOR DATA

[Ready room]

NAYROK [on monitor]: Captain, what this man has
been telling you is full of half-truths. He's a prisoner. What do you
expect him to say about us? 
PICARD: Well, perhaps you would clarify it for me. 
NAYROK [on monitor]: The soldiers were resettled on Lunar Five. It was
to be their colony. 
PICARD: Was it a resettlement of their choosing? 
NAYROK [on monitor]: It was for their own protection as well as that of
others. Most of them were quite happy there. We went to great lengths
to give them a fine quality of life. 
PICARD: Prime Minister, even the most comfortable prison is a prison. 
NAYROK [on monitor]: Unfortunately, a few agitators like Danar forced
us to add security. 
PICARD: My medical team suggests there may be alternative treatment. 
NAYROK [on monitor]: Captain, I assure you that every alternative has
been explored. And this discussion is now treading upon matters of
internal security, which is not your concern. I have dispatched a ship
to rendezvous with you to transport the prisoner back to Lunar Five. On
behalf of Angosia, I thank the Federation for its assistance in
retrieving our citizen. 
(Transmission ends) 
PICARD: Matter of internal security. The age-old cry of the oppressor. 
[Brig]

ROGA: Were you built for combat, android? 
DATA: No. But my programme does include military strategy. That is how
I was able to anticipate your final tactic and capture you. 
ROGA: You did that? Perhaps you would be better at combat than you
think. 
DATA: Except that I am not programmed to kill. 
ROGA: My improved reflexes have allowed me to kill eighty four times.
And my improved memory lets me remember each of those eighty four
faces. Can you understand how that feels? 
DATA: I am incapable of any feeling. 
ROGA: Why, then I envy you. 
(Picard and Troi enter) 
TROI: Roga, this is Captain Picard. 
ROGA: Captain. 
PICARD: Mister Danar, I'm transferring you to Angosian security.
They're en route. They will arrive shortly. I wanted to tell you I have
no choice. The Prime Minister insisted and we have no right to refuse. 
ROGA: You would be foolish to consider it otherwise, Captain, for they
are very correct. I am dangerous. There is no place for me in a
civilised society. 
TROI: I do not believe that. 
DATA: Nor do I. 
PICARD: I respect my officers' judgements. I wish I could help further.
If a way appears to me, I will. 
ROGA: I appreciate your telling me that face to face. 
PICARD: I thought you deserved that much. 
ROGA: And you deserve to know that I must use whatever means I can to
escape. 
WORF [OC]: Captain, the Angosian transport vessel has arrived. 
PICARD: Inform them the transfer will take place shortly. Picard out.
Mister Data, to the Bridge please. 
(Picard leaves) 
ROGA: Take care of yourself, android. I enjoyed our talk. 
DATA: I too. 
(Data leaves) 
TROI: Perhaps when this planet becomes a member of the Federation,
we'll be able 
ROGA: I will not be there to see it, Counsellor. Because even with this
overwhelming demand to survive that they've built into my soul, I would
rather die than return to Lunar Five.

[Bridge]

WAGNOR [on viewscreen]: Captain Picard, we're ready
to receive the prisoner. Now transmitting the coordinates of our
holding cell. 
DATA: Coordinates received, sir. 
PICARD: Stand by for transport. Picard out. Mister Worf, have all
security precautions been taken? 
WORF: Release of the force field and activation of the transporter will
be virtually simultaneous. There will only be a point one second
difference between them. 
RIKER: Even Danar can't move that fast. 
WORF: There will be a full security contingent present. 
PICARD: Proceed.

[Transporter room]

O'BRIEN: Transporter room one to Lieutenant Worf.
We're ready, sir.

