ROGA TROI PICARD RIKER NAYROK COMPUTER DATA

[Bridge]

NAYROK [on viewscreen]: We'll need a few hours to
get the containment field on Lunar Five operational before we pick him
up. The damage he did during his escape was considerable. 
PICARD: We will await your signal. 
NAYROK [on viewscreen]: I appreciate your patience. The prison
psychologist recommends that you keep Danar fully sedated until he's
ready for transport. 
PICARD: Well, he's in our highest security detention area. There
shouldn't be any more problems. 
NAYROK [on viewscreen]: Do not relax your security for an instant,
Captain. He is extremely violent and very cunning, as you already know.
I will send a transport vessel to pick him up as soon as possible.
Nayrok out. 
RIKER: Have you run a diagnostic on the sensors, Data? 
DATA: Yes, sir. There is nothing wrong with the ship's sensors. The
reason we did not sense life signs aboard the escape vessel is because
the prisoner has no life signs. 
RIKER: Computer, identify the occupant of the detention cell. 
COMPUTER: The detention cell is vacant at this time. 
RIKER: He's in there. 
PICARD: Could he be some kind of android? 
DATA: Our sensors can identify artificial lifeforms, sir. Apparently,
he is capable of deceiving the sensors.

[Brig]

(Roga has been having a nightmare, and Deanna
sensed it while walking along a corridor. She has hurried to the Brig) 
TROI: Are you all right? 
ROGA: What is this ship? 
TROI: You're on board the USS Enterprise. 
ROGA: A war vessel? 
TROI: A Federation starship. 
ROGA: Federation! 
TROI: We were orbiting Angosia when you escaped from Lunar Five. 
ROGA: It seems that I am a victim of my own bad timing. And you are the
keeper of this jail? 
(he tests the forcefield) 
TROI: I'm Deanna Troi, ship's Counsellor. 
ROGA: Counsellor? Too bad. I'd rather you were a jailer to keep me
company during my return trip. I assume we are returning to Lunar Five.

TROI: That terrifies you. 
ROGA: I just killed three men to get out of there, Counsellor, and I'm
fully capable of killing you as well. That's terrifying thought, isn't
it? Even to me. 
TROI: Do they mistreat you there? 
ROGA: Not at all. I am comfortable, well fed and housed. Oh no, the
Angosians take good care of their prisoners. It's simply a matter of
never being able to leave. What about you, Counsellor? Do you always
visit the prisoners? Are you a specialist in criminal behaviour? Or am
I just an interesting specimen that landed on your ship like an insect
to be studied under your microscope? 
TROI: Why do you have all this anger toward me? 
ROGA: A girl with long dark hair broke my heart a long time ago. Out of
bitterness and resentment, I turned to crime. How about this one? My
mother abandoned me when I was a little boy. I never got the guidance
that a wild young man needed. 
TROI: Why are you doing this? 
ROGA: Playing games? Isn't that what you do, Counsellor? Isn't that
what all of you mind control experts do? 
TROI: I am not a mind control expert. I came here because I sensed you
were in pain. 
ROGA: And what do you sense now? 
TROI: The pain is gone. 
ROGA: It's interesting, isn't it?

[Ready room]

TROI: There's a duality in the man. It's hard to
describe. He's aware of his crimes. In fact, they trouble him deeply. 
PICARD: Counsellor. 
TROI: He's intelligent, thoughtful, typically Angosian. I know what
he's done, but when I'm with him I cannot believe he is randomly and
deliberately violent. in fact, inherently, he has a non-violent
personality. 
PICARD: Counsellor, it took five men to restrain him and he took apart
half of the Transporter Room in the process. 
TROI: I'm not opening the door for him, Captain. I can only tell you
that I sense something very unusual about him. Something that is not
inherent to a criminal personality. 
PICARD: In a few hours, I'll be turning him over to the Angosians, and
I'll be happy to do it. 
TROI: I understand.

[Bridge]

TROI: Data, do we have a link up to the Angosian
central computer? 
DATA: Yes, Counsellor. We are copying records for Federation inspection
pursuant to their application for admittance. 
TROI: Can I see a police record on Roga Danar? 
(search negative) 
DATA: There is no police record. 
TROI: That's impossible. He's been in prison. 
DATA: Lunar Five is a military prison facility. 
TROI: Military? He's a soldier ? 
DATA: That may provide an explanation for the tactics he was able to
use against us when we tried to capture him. 
TROI: It doesn't say here what he was arrested for. Call up his
military record. 
DATA: He served in many campaigns during the Tarsian War, received two
promotions, to the rank of Subhadar. A very honourable tour of duty 
TROI: What was this man's crime?

