ROGA TROI WORF PICARD RIKER NAYROK CRUSHER DATA

[Observation lounge]

TROI: Roga Danar was an idealistic young man who
answered his people's call to service. He joined the military to fight
for the Angosian way of life. What he didn't realise was that by doing
so he would have to give up that way of life for ever. He's not the
same man who left home to go to war. He's been through intense
psychological manipulation and biochemical modifications. 
CRUSHER: At Troi's request I examined him. His cell structure has been
significantly altered. They used a
combination of cryptobiolin, triclenidil, macrospentol and a few things
I can't even recognise. 
RIKER: Was he a prisoner of war? Who did this to him? 
TROI: His own government. He's been programmed to be the perfect
soldier. He can be absolutely normal, but when
a danger is perceived, the programming clicks in and takes over.
Memory, strength, intelligence, reflexes, all become
enhanced. He's conditioned to survive at any cost. 
CRUSHER: One of the new substances in his cellular structure even
shields electrical impulses. 
DATA: Perhaps that would explain why our sensors did not detect him. 
PICARD: Why was he assigned to the Lunar Five facility? 
TROI: He committed no crime. He says he was ordered there with others
like him. When the first soldiers returned to
Angosia, they had trouble. The rules changed too quickly. A lost temper
could result in murder. 
DATA: Counsellor, did no one try to adjust their programming? 
TROI: They were just exiled to Lunar Five. 
PICARD: Lunar Five, an orbiting gulag.

[Brig]

ROGA: What do you want? 
DATA: Am I disturbing you? 
ROGA: Yes. 
DATA: Then I will leave. 
ROGA: NO. Wait, wait. I'd rather talk to someone. Why do you have
yellow eyes? 
DATA: I am an android. I believe you and I have something in common. 
ROGA: We do? 
DATA: Yes. We have both been programmed. 
ROGA: Ah, yes, yes. You've been talking to Counsellor Troi. It is not
at all the same, android. 
DATA: I do not mean to belittle your condition. I understand your
dilemma. But I am curious. My
programme can be altered. Yours cannot? 
ROGA: The man I was is still inside me, but this conditioning has been
imposed. Woven together with my thoughts and my feelings and my
responses. How do you separate the programme from the man? 
DATA: Without further analysis of your condition from Counsellor Troi
or Doctor Crusher, I cannot say. But I believe it is possible. 
ROGA: Yeah, doctors! The Angosian doctors did this to me. If it could
be undone, wouldn't they undo it? 
DATA: I cannot answer that. 
ROGA: Nor can I, yet I ask myself that question every moment of every
day.

[Ready room]

NAYROK [on monitor]: Captain, what this man has
been telling you is full of half-truths. He's a prisoner. What do you
expect him to say about us? 
PICARD: Well, perhaps you would clarify it for me. 
NAYROK [on monitor]: The soldiers were resettled on Lunar Five. It was
to be their colony. 
PICARD: Was it a resettlement of their choosing? 
NAYROK [on monitor]: It was for their own protection as well as that of
others. Most of them were quite happy there. We went to great lengths
to give them a fine quality of life. 
PICARD: Prime Minister, even the most comfortable prison is a prison. 
NAYROK [on monitor]: Unfortunately, a few agitators like Danar forced
us to add security. 
PICARD: My medical team suggests there may be alternative treatment. 
NAYROK [on monitor]: Captain, I assure you that every alternative has
been explored. And this discussion is now treading upon matters of
internal security, which is not your concern. I have dispatched a ship
to rendezvous with you to transport the prisoner back to Lunar Five. On
behalf of Angosia, I thank the Federation for its assistance in
retrieving our citizen. 
(Transmission ends) 
PICARD: Matter of internal security. The age-old cry of the oppressor. 
[Brig]

ROGA: Were you built for combat, android? 
DATA: No. But my programme does include military strategy. That is how
I was able to anticipate your final tactic and capture you. 
ROGA: You did that? Perhaps you would be better at combat than you
think. 
DATA: Except that I am not programmed to kill. 
ROGA: My improved reflexes have allowed me to kill eighty four times.
And my improved memory lets me remember each of those eighty four
faces. Can you understand how that feels? 
DATA: I am incapable of any feeling. 
ROGA: Why, then I envy you. 
(Picard and Troi enter) 
TROI: Roga, this is Captain Picard. 
ROGA: Captain. 
PICARD: Mister Danar, I'm transferring you to Angosian security.
They're en route. They will arrive shortly. I wanted to tell you I have
no choice. The Prime Minister insisted and we have no right to refuse. 
ROGA: You would be foolish to consider it otherwise, Captain, for they
are very correct. I am dangerous. There is no place for me in a
civilised society. 
TROI: I do not believe that. 
DATA: Nor do I. 
PICARD: I respect my officers' judgements. I wish I could help further.
If a way appears to me, I will. 
ROGA: I appreciate your telling me that face to face. 
PICARD: I thought you deserved that much. 
ROGA: And you deserve to know that I must use whatever means I can to
escape. 
WORF [OC]: Captain, the Angosian transport vessel has arrived. 
PICARD: Inform them the transfer will take place shortly. Picard out.
Mister Data, to the Bridge please. 
(Picard leaves) 
ROGA: Take care of yourself, android. I enjoyed our talk. 
DATA: I too. 
(Data leaves) 
TROI: Perhaps when this planet becomes a member of the Federation,
we'll be able 
ROGA: I will not be there to see it, Counsellor. Because even with this
overwhelming demand to survive that they've built into my soul, I would
rather die than return to Lunar Five.

