ROGA TROI OBRIEN PICARD RIKER NAYROK COMPUTER SECURITY DATA

[Transporter room]

SECURITY: Bring him in, Mister O'Brien. 
(The escaped prisoner raises his weapon.) 
SECURITY: Just stay where you are. 
(The security guard fires, but it has almost no effect. They are jumped
by the prisoner) 
O'BRIEN: More security, transporter room four. More security! More
security! 
(O'Brien tries to help out by getting the prisoner in a head lock, but
he is easily
thrown off. The two guards grab the man and they tumble out into)

[Corridor]

(Where one is thrown off down a side passage and
the other nearly has his arm pulled out. O'Brien shoots the prisoner in
the back with a phaser, but again, it has little effect. O'Brien gets a
return shot for his trouble. The turbolift doors open, and Worf pushes
Riker out of the line of fire just in time. They rush to help the guard
who had been thrown down the passage and finally Worf pins down their
quarry) 
RIKER: Get him to a detention cell. Set phasers on maximum stun. 
O'BRIEN: Commander.

[Bridge]

NAYROK [on viewscreen]: We'll need a few hours to
get the containment field on Lunar Five operational before we pick him
up. The damage he did during his escape was considerable. 
PICARD: We will await your signal. 
NAYROK [on viewscreen]: I appreciate your patience. The prison
psychologist recommends that you keep Danar fully sedated until he's
ready for transport. 
PICARD: Well, he's in our highest security detention area. There
shouldn't be any more problems. 
NAYROK [on viewscreen]: Do not relax your security for an instant,
Captain. He is extremely violent and very cunning, as you already know.
I will send a transport vessel to pick him up as soon as possible.
Nayrok out. 
RIKER: Have you run a diagnostic on the sensors, Data? 
DATA: Yes, sir. There is nothing wrong with the ship's sensors. The
reason we did not sense life signs aboard the escape vessel is because
the prisoner has no life signs. 
RIKER: Computer, identify the occupant of the detention cell. 
COMPUTER: The detention cell is vacant at this time. 
RIKER: He's in there. 
PICARD: Could he be some kind of android? 
DATA: Our sensors can identify artificial lifeforms, sir. Apparently,
he is capable of deceiving the sensors.

[Brig]

(Roga has been having a nightmare, and Deanna
sensed it while walking along a corridor. She has hurried to the Brig) 
TROI: Are you all right? 
ROGA: What is this ship? 
TROI: You're on board the USS Enterprise. 
ROGA: A war vessel? 
TROI: A Federation starship. 
ROGA: Federation! 
TROI: We were orbiting Angosia when you escaped from Lunar Five. 
ROGA: It seems that I am a victim of my own bad timing. And you are the
keeper of this jail? 
(he tests the forcefield) 
TROI: I'm Deanna Troi, ship's Counsellor. 
ROGA: Counsellor? Too bad. I'd rather you were a jailer to keep me
company during my return trip. I assume we are returning to Lunar Five.

TROI: That terrifies you. 
ROGA: I just killed three men to get out of there, Counsellor, and I'm
fully capable of killing you as well. That's terrifying thought, isn't
it? Even to me. 
TROI: Do they mistreat you there? 
ROGA: Not at all. I am comfortable, well fed and housed. Oh no, the
Angosians take good care of their prisoners. It's simply a matter of
never being able to leave. What about you, Counsellor? Do you always
visit the prisoners? Are you a specialist in criminal behaviour? Or am
I just an interesting specimen that landed on your ship like an insect
to be studied under your microscope? 
TROI: Why do you have all this anger toward me? 
ROGA: A girl with long dark hair broke my heart a long time ago. Out of
bitterness and resentment, I turned to crime. How about this one? My
mother abandoned me when I was a little boy. I never got the guidance
that a wild young man needed. 
TROI: Why are you doing this? 
ROGA: Playing games? Isn't that what you do, Counsellor? Isn't that
what all of you mind control experts do? 
TROI: I am not a mind control expert. I came here because I sensed you
were in pain. 
ROGA: And what do you sense now? 
TROI: The pain is gone. 
ROGA: It's interesting, isn't it?

