ROGA RIKER LAFORGE WORF PICARD SECURITY DATA

[Bridge]

PICARD: Data, I want you to stall Danar. Allow him
to think he's succeeding. 
DATA: As he bypasses each subsystem, I can re-route it without his
knowledge. 
PICARD: Make it so. 
DATA: Danar is extremely adept, sir. I am not certain which security
measure he is attempting to circumvent. Sir, Danar has succeeded in
restoring power to shuttlebay two. 
(Danar has climbed the ladder to the upper core level) 
DATA: I have overridden Danar's bypass. Shuttlebay two is once again
inactive. 
PICARD: Very good, Mister Data. Now we know where he's headed. 
(Danar strides down a Jefferies tube taller than a man) 
[Engineering]

WORF: Geordi! 
LAFORGE: I'm all right. He took us by surprise. He came out of nowhere.
I didn't think anyone could move that fast. 
DATA [OC]: Lieutenant, I am reading an open panel. K twelve, J nine,
deck thirty. 
WORF: Acknowledged. 
LAFORGE: Danar must have climbed up the reactor core and got into a
Jefferies tube. He could be anywhere. 
WORF: We believe he is attempting to reach shuttlebay two. 
LAFORGE: That's twenty five decks up from here. Quite a climb, but I
wouldn't put it past him. 
WORF: There is a full contingent of security at all shuttlebays. 
LAFORGE: You want my advice? Double it!

[Bridge]

DATA: Captain, reading another open access panel. 
PICARD: Security team to Jefferies tube J four, deck fifteen. 
SECURITY [OC]: Security acknowledged. 
(Danar puts an overloading phaser into the access panel) 
RIKER: Deck fifteen, a few decks below the shuttlebay. 
DATA: Sir, I find it highly unlikely that Danar would be attempting to
reach shuttlebay two. 
PICARD: Explain. 
DATA: In our previous encounter, Danar employed a strategy of
misdirection in an attempt to gain his objective. 
PICARD: And you believe he's using the same tactic now. 
DATA: He is aware that our sensors are unable to track him, yet he
seems to be purposely leaving a trail for us to follow. 
RIKER: Where do you think he's headed? 
DATA: I am afraid his true destination remains a mystery. Readings now
indicate an open access panel in Jeffries tube N eleven, deck thirty
eight. 
PICARD: He's doubled back on us. 
RIKER: The cargo bays. 
PICARD: Advise all personnel on deck thirty eight to stay out of the
cargo bays. 
(Danar tries to activate a cargo transporter, then opens up the back of
the mechanism) 
PICARD: Status, Mister Data? 
DATA: They appear to be empty, sir. 
PICARD: Good. I want you to flood them with anestazine. 
DATA: Aye, sir. 
(Danar spots the gas, and gets a suit from one of the containers
nearby) 
DATA: Sensors show anestazine concentration seventy parts per million
within the cargo bays. 
RIKER: That should have put our boy to sleep. 
PICARD: Return environmental conditions to normal, Mister Data. Move in
your security teams, Mister Worf.
WORF [OC]: Acknowledged.

[Cargo bay]

WORF: Worf to Bridge. We have found no sign of the
intruder. But there is a missing pressure suit

[Bridge]

WORF [OC]: From cargo bay three.
PICARD: Pressure suit? 
RIKER: Could be he's planning to enter shuttlebay two from outside the
Enterprise, bypassing the security guards. 
PICARD: Mister Worf, post security guards at all emergency airlocks on
decks 
[Cargo bay]

PICARD [OC]: Thirty seven through thirty nine. 
WORF: Aye, sir. I'll also cover the photon torpedo launchers. Danar may
attempt to leave the ship that way. Worf out. 
(But Danar is hiding behind some cargo, not wearing the pressure suit.
When he hears the doors closing, he comes out and doesn't see Worf
hiding) 
WORF: Danar! You are cunning. You must have Klingon blood. But the
battle is over. 
ROGA: My battle is never over. 
WORF: Worf to Bridge. I have Danar. 
(The hidden phaser explodes, the lights go out, and Danar jumps Worf) 
[Bridge]

DATA: Explosion in Jefferies tube section T nine
five. All external sensors inoperative. 
RIKER: Go to backup systems. 
DATA: Unable to transfer control, sir.

[Cargo bay]

(Danar finally defeats Worf by toppling a lot of
cargo boxes on top of him. Then he beams himself onto the transport
ship) 
