RIKER OBRIEN PICARD NAYROK COMPUTER SECURITY DATA

[Bridge]

O'BRIEN: It's been rendered inoperable. 
RIKER: Work, let's greet our guest.

[Transporter room]

SECURITY: Bring him in, Mister O'Brien. 
(The escaped prisoner raises his weapon.) 
SECURITY: Just stay where you are. 
(The security guard fires, but it has almost no effect. They are jumped
by the prisoner) 
O'BRIEN: More security, transporter room four. More security! More
security! 
(O'Brien tries to help out by getting the prisoner in a head lock, but
he is easily
thrown off. The two guards grab the man and they tumble out into)

[Corridor]

(Where one is thrown off down a side passage and
the other nearly has his arm pulled out. O'Brien shoots the prisoner in
the back with a phaser, but again, it has little effect. O'Brien gets a
return shot for his trouble. The turbolift doors open, and Worf pushes
Riker out of the line of fire just in time. They rush to help the guard
who had been thrown down the passage and finally Worf pins down their
quarry) 
RIKER: Get him to a detention cell. Set phasers on maximum stun. 
O'BRIEN: Commander.

[Bridge]

NAYROK [on viewscreen]: We'll need a few hours to
get the containment field on Lunar Five operational before we pick him
up. The damage he did during his escape was considerable. 
PICARD: We will await your signal. 
NAYROK [on viewscreen]: I appreciate your patience. The prison
psychologist recommends that you keep Danar fully sedated until he's
ready for transport. 
PICARD: Well, he's in our highest security detention area. There
shouldn't be any more problems. 
NAYROK [on viewscreen]: Do not relax your security for an instant,
Captain. He is extremely violent and very cunning, as you already know.
I will send a transport vessel to pick him up as soon as possible.
Nayrok out. 
RIKER: Have you run a diagnostic on the sensors, Data? 
DATA: Yes, sir. There is nothing wrong with the ship's sensors. The
reason we did not sense life signs aboard the escape vessel is because
the prisoner has no life signs. 
RIKER: Computer, identify the occupant of the detention cell. 
COMPUTER: The detention cell is vacant at this time. 
RIKER: He's in there. 
PICARD: Could he be some kind of android? 
DATA: Our sensors can identify artificial lifeforms, sir. Apparently,
he is capable of deceiving the sensors.

