ROGA RIKER LAFORGE WORF PICARD TROI NAYROK ZAYNAR DATA

[Bridge]

DATA: Explosion in Jefferies tube section T nine
five. All external sensors inoperative. 
RIKER: Go to backup systems. 
DATA: Unable to transfer control, sir.

[Cargo bay]

(Danar finally defeats Worf by toppling a lot of
cargo boxes on top of him. Then he beams himself onto the transport
ship) 
[Transport ship]

ROGA: Sit down, gentlemen.

[Cargo bay]

WORF: Worf to Bridge. 
PICARD [OC]: Go ahead. 
WORF: Danar has escaped. 
[Bridge]

WORF [OC]: He used a phaser to power the cargo
transporter. Coordinates indicate he beamed aboard the Angosian
transport ship.
PICARD: Data, can you verify that? 
DATA: Negative, sir. All external sensors still nonfunctioning. 
PICARD: Then we have no way to track him. 
RIKER: That was his plan all along.

First officer's log, supplemental. We are
continuing to repair damage to the ship's sensors following the escape
of the Angosian prisoner, Danar. He is still at large.

[Bridge]

RIKER: Engineering, I'm getting readings on
Tactical. Are we back up? 
LAFORGE [OC]: That's affirmative, Commander. 
PICARD: Mister Worf, sweep the area. 
DATA: Captain, the Prime Minister is hailing us. Priority one. 
PICARD: On screen. 
WORF: Priority channel cleared. 
PICARD: Yes, Prime Minister? 
NAYROK [on viewscreen]: Captain, I've just been informed that Roga
Danar has attacked the penal colony on Lunar Five. 
PICARD: Attacked it ? 
NAYROK [on viewscreen]: In our own police shuttle. Several of my people
have been wounded. Hundreds of prisoners are rioting. Some of them have
escaped with Danar and at last report are headed to the capital city.
Captain, we are not suited to handle situations like this. That's what
we created them for. 
PICARD: I'll send an away team, Prime Minister. Picard out. Counsellor
Troi, Commander Data, Mister Worf, you will accompany me to the planet.

[Corridor]

PICARD: And my understanding is these men are
programmed to survive. Is that correct? 
TROI: Yes, Captain. 
PICARD: And that they will not kill unless their survival is at stake? 
DATA: It is against their nature to do so, Captain. 
PICARD: Then let us hope they do not believe their survival is at
stake. 
RIKER: Mister Worf, you are personally responsible for the Captain's
safety. 
WORF: I understand, Commander.

[Angosian Senate]

(Weapons are being handed out in a hurry) 
NAYROK: I don't expect them to listen to reason. I loathe the idea of a
violent confrontation, but we must be prepared. 
(The away team beam in) 
NAYROK: This is all you've brought? Where are your security men? 
PICARD: We're not here to fight your wars for you. 
NAYROK: They have been seen moving toward the center of the city.
People are scared. Don't you understand, Captain? They're dangerous. 
PICARD: You are dangerous. They're only victims. You made them what
they are. You asked them to defend your way of life and then you
discarded them. 
ZAYNAR: They were not happy here. 
TROI: They were not welcome here. 
ZAYNAR: It was the will of the people to resettle them. 
NAYROK: No one was pleased with the solution, but we had to act for the
greater good. 
DATA: Prime Minister, if you have the skills to create a master
soldier, can you not contradict the effect? 
NAYROK: The chemicals can be removed from their systems, but we're not
convinced that the psychological conditioning can ever be entirely
reversed. 
DATA: Have you tried, sir? 
NAYROK: We studied it thoroughly. Even before the training began, we
knew there would be problems reversing it. It was a risk we had to
take. 
WORF: Did you reveal that risk to the men who volunteered for service? 
NAYROK: We were helping them to survive the war, you understand? They
needed these skills. 
PICARD: They're your brothers, your sons, and you turned your backs on
them. 
TROI: There are methods of treatment. Until you try them, how can you
know they won't work? Even a partial recovery could give them some
peace.
ZAYNAR: It was the will of the people. 
TROI: To allow them to suffer? 
NAYROK: There was a referendum. The people weighed the costs involved.
They chose the resettlement solution. 
ZAYNAR: Besides, we may need to use them again some day. 
PICARD: Have you understood one word that we've said? 
(The rogue soldiers arrive) 
ROGA: Freeze! Nobody move! 
PICARD: No, Worf! All of you. Don't respond. Don't provoke them
further. Keep those weapons down unless you wish to be killed. 
NAYROK: Do as he says. 
ROGA: No! Don't. Shoot us. Destroy us. Do what you have to do. But you
will not ignore us. Go on, do it! 
(He shoots a hole in the wall next to Nayrok) 
ROGA: Cowards. 
PICARD: Yes, and you are not programmed to murder cowards. So if they
will not fight back, what will you do? 
ROGA: We will not go back. 
NAYROK: You are programmed to survive. You can survive at the Lunar
Five settlement. 
ROGA: To survive is not enough. To simply exist is not enough. 
TROI: Roga, tell them what you want. 
ROGA: We want our lives back. We want to come home. 
NAYROK: I am not prepared to negotiate under threat, Danar, but if you
will put down your weapons and return peaceably to Lunar Five, I would
be willing. 
ROGA: Mister Prime Minister, with all due respect, you will have to
force us. Or at least try. 
NAYROK: Captain, you must do something. Call your ship. 
PICARD: Quite right, Prime Minister. Enterprise, prepare to beam the
away team back. 
RIKER [OC]: At your command, Captain. 
NAYROK: Picard, you can't leave us like this. 
PICARD: I have all the information I need for our report. Your prisoner
has been returned to you and you have a decision to make. Whether to
try to force them back or welcome them home. In your own words, this is
not our affair. We cannot interfere in the natural course of your
society's development, and I'd say it's likely to develop significantly
in the next
several minutes. It's been an interesting visit. When you're ready for
membership, the Federation will be pleased to reconsider your
application. Mister Riker, four to beam up. 
RIKER [OC]: Aye, sir. 
