ALEXANA RIKER WORF CREWMAN WESLEY PICARD POLICEMAN KATIK FINN CRUSHER DATA LAFORGE

[Infirmary]

(Finn is sketching as Beverly tends to her patients
with the boy) 
CRUSHER: It's okay. Over there. 
(She sees what he's drawing - her hand holding another hand) 
CRUSHER: You should be drawing, not killing people. 
FINN: I can do both. 
CRUSHER: How can you have such a casual attitude toward killing? 
FINN: I take my killing very seriously, Doctor. You are an idealist. 
CRUSHER: I live in an ideal culture. There's no need for your kind of
violence. We've proven that. 
FINN: Your origins on Earth are from the American continent, are they
not? 
CRUSHER: North America. 
FINN: Yes, I've read your history books. This is a war for
independence, and I am no different than your own George Washington 
CRUSHER: Washington was a military general, not a terrorist. 
FINN: The difference between generals and terrorists, Doctor, is only
the difference between winners and losers. You win, you're called a
general. You lose 
CRUSHER: You are killing innocent people! Can't you see the immorality
of what you're doing or have you killed so much you've become blind to
it? 
FINN: How much innocent blood has been spilled for the cause of freedom
in the history of your Federation, Doctor? How many good and noble
societies have bombed civilians in war, have wiped out whole cities.
And now that you enjoy the comfort that has come from their battles,
their killing, you frown on my immorality? I am willing to die for my
freedom, Doctor.
And in the finest tradition of your own great civilisation, I'm willing
to kill for it, too.

[Alexana's office]

ALEXANA: All right. You can go. 
(The suspect glares at Riker and is escorted out of the room) 
POLICEMAN [OC]: Next man. 
ALEXANA: If you want, I could become more persuasive. 
RIKER: No. 
(The waiter comes in) 
ALEXANA: You're Katik Shaw, the waiter from the Lumar Cafe. You
witnessed both the explosion and the kidnapping. 
KATIK: I saw nothing. 
ALEXANA: We're aware of your ties with the Ansata. For all we know you
planted the bomb yourself. Where have they taken her? 
KATIK: I don't know what you're talking about. 
RIKER: I've had enough of this. I want you to take a message back to
your people. You tell them the Federation is willing to negotiate for
the release of Doctor Crusher. 
ALEXANA: Riker! 
RIKER: She's a Starfleet officer. She's my responsibility. Your people
have terms. We're willing to listen. We want her back. It's as simple
as that. I don't think it's necessary to detain this gentleman any
longer. 
ALEXANA: Get out. 
(Katik the waiter leaves, and Alexana gestures for the other policeman
to leave them alone) 
ALEXANA: I should have him followed, but we'll try it your way. 
RIKER: Is that what you want? 
ALEXANA: What I want is to go home. Back to my own country. To leave
behind the roundups, the interrogations, the bodies lying in the
street. To be able to walk without bodyguards, and to not have to jump
at every unexpected noise. That's what I want, Riker!

[Bridge]

DATA: A dimensional jump can create subspace
pressure modulation, Captain. By setting up a magnetosphere echogram
that can monitor each of their movements, we may be able to collect
enough data to trace their power source. 
PICARD: Can you estimate the number of jumps it will take? 
DATA: Dimensional shifting is such an unstable procedure, sir, that I
cannot say. Sir, I am finding it difficult to understand many aspects
of Ansata conduct. Much of their behavioral norm would be defined by my
programme as unnecessary and unacceptable. 
PICARD: By my programme as well, Data. 
DATA: But if that is so, Captain, why are their methods so often
successful? I have been reviewing the history of armed rebellion and it
appears that terrorism is an effective way to promote political change.

PICARD: Yes, it can be, but I have never subscribed to the theory that
political power flows from the barrel of a gun. 
DATA: Yet there are numerous examples where it was successful. The
independence of the Mexican State from Spain, the Irish Unification of
2024, and the Kensey Rebellion. 
PICARD: Yes, I am aware of them. 
DATA: Then would it be accurate to say that terrorism is acceptable
when all options for peaceful settlement have been foreclosed? 
PICARD: Data, these are questions that mankind has been struggling with
throughout history. Your confusion is only human.

[Infirmary]

KATIK: Finn, everyone is being rounded up. 
FINN: Because of her? 
KATIK: The Federation wants to negotiate her release. 
FINN: While they arrange for the Rutian police to fill up the detention
cells. 
KATIK: A Starfleet officer is working with the director. He wants a
meeting with you. 
FINN: I'm sure he does. Your Federation colleagues have engineered mass
arrests to pressure me into releasing you. 
CRUSHER: I'm sure you've misunderstood. 
FINN: They're working with the police. He's seen it with his own eyes. 
CRUSHER: All they want is to get me back safely. 
FINN: I'm not releasing you. I need you here. 
CRUSHER: To find a way to reverse the effects of the dimensional shift?
I can do that right now. Stop using it! I have a life, Finn. I have a
son who needs me. 
FINN: Is your son on the ship? 
CRUSHER: Yes. 
FINN: I'm sorry he's on the ship. 
CRUSHER: No. 
FINN: They have joined forces with the Rutians against us. 
CRUSHER: We are not your enemy. 
FINN: They are more valuable to me than an enemy. For seventy years we
have shouted, and no one's heard us. Destroy the Federation flagship,
someone will listen. 
CRUSHER: Please. 
FINN: They are the ones who interfered. They are the ones who sent
medical supplies. They are the ones who organised mass arrests. They
are killing your son, not me. 
CRUSHER: Please, Finn, don't do this. I will do anything you ask. 
FINN: I had a son, too. He was thirteen when he died in detention.

[Corridor]

(A female terrorist jumps into the corridor) 
CREWMAN: What? 
(She guns him down while the woman runs back round a corner) 
[Bridge]

WORF: Intruder alert, deck twelve. 
WESLEY: Another subspace reflection. Dimensional shift, sir. 
PICARD: Go to Red alert. Sound general quarters.

[Engineering]

(A man jumps into the upper core area and kills an
engineer) 
LAFORGE: Security to Engineering. 
(Geordi just manages to avoid a hail of bullets) 
