ALEXANA RIKER LAFORGE KATIK PICARD WESLEY FINN POLICEMAN [OC] CRUSHER DATA
sir unexpected freedom hand ones team difference minute wait

[Cavern]

CRUSHER: If I could detect their condition earlier 
FINN: You could reverse the damage? 
CRUSHER: Perhaps. I don't know. What happened to them? 
FINN: It's the inverter. It's given our cause a new life, but it asks
for our lives in return. 
CRUSHER: What does it do? 
FINN: We transport through a dimensional shift that the Rutian sensors
can't trace. 
CRUSHER: Dimensional shifting? You can't do that with humanoid tissue. 
FINN: There are risks, the designers told us, But it works. 
CRUSHER: You're showing the same distorted readings. Not as severe as
the others, but 
FINN: It doesn't matter. 
CRUSHER: It does if it kills you. 
FINN: Don't you know? A dead martyr's worth ten posturing leaders.

[Engineering]

(Data and Wesley are examining the terrorist
device) 
DATA: A subspace field coil with an isolated power source. Curious. 
LAFORGE: Hey, guys. Come here. Look at this. The Rutian team picked up
a faint nuclear vibration during the terrorist movements. 
WESLEY: Nuclear vibration? 
DATA: That could possibly indicate subspace transition rebound during
transport. 
WESLEY: Wait a minute, wait a minute. May I? Computer, call up the
files on. What was his name? We spent two hours on him in astral
physics last year. Folded-space transport. 
LAFORGE: Adaptive transport. 
WESLEY: Yes. 
DATA: Are you referring to the Elway Theorem? 
WESLEY: Yes. Computer, call up the files on the Elway Theorem. What if
they're using inter-dimensional travel? 
DATA: But the Elway Theorem proved to be entirely inaccurate. All
research was abandoned by the mid-twenty third century. 
WESLEY: But Data, look, the nuclear vibrations are the same, and Elway
used a model similar to this. 
LAFORGE: It would certainly be untraceable by any standard method of
detection. 
DATA: But it was proven to be fatal. To use this technology would be an
irrational act. 
PICARD: We may be dealing with irrational people, Data. Is there a way
to trace this? 
LAFORGE: With an adaptive subspace echogram, maybe? 
DATA: Captain, anyone who is willing to transport in this manner, would
suffer significant internal damage that could be detected. 
PICARD: It sounds as though they may require the services of a doctor.

[Plaza]

(The waiter has been arrested) 
RIKER: This is no way to live. 
ALEXANA: For us or them? 
RIKER: For both of you. 
ALEXANA: I know it's not pretty, Riker, but this is what terrorism has
done to this city. 
RIKER: There's got to be a better way to deal with it than this. 
ALEXANA: My methods may seem harsh but believe me, they're gentle
compared to my predecessors. Suspects would be brought into police
headquarters and mysteriously vanish. I put a stop to that. 
RIKER: What happened to your predecessors? 
ALEXANA: They were murdered. 
RIKER: Are you going to tell me that little boy's a threat? 
(Two children are being handcuffed) 
ALEXANA: It's possible. That shuttlebus I told you about? The bomb was
set by a teenager. In a world where children blow up children,
everyone's a threat.

[Infirmary]

(Finn is sketching as Beverly tends to her patients
with the boy) 
CRUSHER: It's okay. Over there. 
(She sees what he's drawing - her hand holding another hand) 
CRUSHER: You should be drawing, not killing people. 
FINN: I can do both. 
CRUSHER: How can you have such a casual attitude toward killing? 
FINN: I take my killing very seriously, Doctor. You are an idealist. 
CRUSHER: I live in an ideal culture. There's no need for your kind of
violence. We've proven that. 
FINN: Your origins on Earth are from the American continent, are they
not? 
CRUSHER: North America. 
FINN: Yes, I've read your history books. This is a war for
independence, and I am no different than your own George Washington 
CRUSHER: Washington was a military general, not a terrorist. 
FINN: The difference between generals and terrorists, Doctor, is only
the difference between winners and losers. You win, you're called a
general. You lose 
CRUSHER: You are killing innocent people! Can't you see the immorality
of what you're doing or have you killed so much you've become blind to
it? 
FINN: How much innocent blood has been spilled for the cause of freedom
in the history of your Federation, Doctor? How many good and noble
societies have bombed civilians in war, have wiped out whole cities.
And now that you enjoy the comfort that has come from their battles,
their killing, you frown on my immorality? I am willing to die for my
freedom, Doctor.
And in the finest tradition of your own great civilisation, I'm willing
to kill for it, too.

[Alexana's office]

ALEXANA: All right. You can go. 
(The suspect glares at Riker and is escorted out of the room) 
POLICEMAN [OC]: Next man. 
ALEXANA: If you want, I could become more persuasive. 
RIKER: No. 
(The waiter comes in) 
ALEXANA: You're Katik Shaw, the waiter from the Lumar Cafe. You
witnessed both the explosion and the kidnapping. 
KATIK: I saw nothing. 
ALEXANA: We're aware of your ties with the Ansata. For all we know you
planted the bomb yourself. Where have they taken her? 
KATIK: I don't know what you're talking about. 
RIKER: I've had enough of this. I want you to take a message back to
your people. You tell them the Federation is willing to negotiate for
the release of Doctor Crusher. 
ALEXANA: Riker! 
RIKER: She's a Starfleet officer. She's my responsibility. Your people
have terms. We're willing to listen. We want her back. It's as simple
as that. I don't think it's necessary to detain this gentleman any
longer. 
ALEXANA: Get out. 
(Katik the waiter leaves, and Alexana gestures for the other policeman
to leave them alone) 
ALEXANA: I should have him followed, but we'll try it your way. 
RIKER: Is that what you want? 
ALEXANA: What I want is to go home. Back to my own country. To leave
behind the roundups, the interrogations, the bodies lying in the
street. To be able to walk without bodyguards, and to not have to jump
at every unexpected noise. That's what I want, Riker!

[Bridge]

DATA: A dimensional jump can create subspace
pressure modulation, Captain. By setting up a magnetosphere echogram
that can monitor each of their movements, we may be able to collect
enough data to trace their power source. 
PICARD: Can you estimate the number of jumps it will take? 
DATA: Dimensional shifting is such an unstable procedure, sir, that I
cannot say. Sir, I am finding it difficult to understand many aspects
of Ansata conduct. Much of their behavioral norm would be defined by my
programme as unnecessary and unacceptable. 
PICARD: By my programme as well, Data. 
DATA: But if that is so, Captain, why are their methods so often
successful? I have been reviewing the history of armed rebellion and it
appears that terrorism is an effective way to promote political change.

PICARD: Yes, it can be, but I have never subscribed to the theory that
political power flows from the barrel of a gun. 
DATA: Yet there are numerous examples where it was successful. The
independence of the Mexican State from Spain, the Irish Unification of
2024, and the Kensey Rebellion. 
PICARD: Yes, I am aware of them. 
DATA: Then would it be accurate to say that terrorism is acceptable
when all options for peaceful settlement have been foreclosed? 
PICARD: Data, these are questions that mankind has been struggling with
throughout history. Your confusion is only human.

[Infirmary]

KATIK: Finn, everyone is being rounded up. 
FINN: Because of her? 
KATIK: The Federation wants to negotiate her release. 
FINN: While they arrange for the Rutian police to fill up the detention
cells. 
KATIK: A Starfleet officer is working with the director. He wants a
meeting with you. 
FINN: I'm sure he does. Your Federation colleagues have engineered mass
arrests to pressure me into releasing you. 
CRUSHER: I'm sure you've misunderstood. 
FINN: They're working with the police. He's seen it with his own eyes. 
CRUSHER: All they want is to get me back safely. 
FINN: I'm not releasing you. I need you here. 
CRUSHER: To find a way to reverse the effects of the dimensional shift?
I can do that right now. Stop using it! I have a life, Finn. I have a
son who needs me. 
FINN: Is your son on the ship? 
CRUSHER: Yes. 
FINN: I'm sorry he's on the ship. 
CRUSHER: No. 
FINN: They have joined forces with the Rutians against us. 
CRUSHER: We are not your enemy. 
FINN: They are more valuable to me than an enemy. For seventy years we
have shouted, and no one's heard us. Destroy the Federation flagship,
someone will listen. 
CRUSHER: Please. 
FINN: They are the ones who interfered. They are the ones who sent
medical supplies. They are the ones who organised mass arrests. They
are killing your son, not me. 
CRUSHER: Please, Finn, don't do this. I will do anything you ask. 
FINN: I had a son, too. He was thirteen when he died in detention.

