ALEXANA RIKER POLICE WORF PICARD VOICES WESLEY FINN CRUSHER DATA

[Side cave]

PICARD: Worf went down. I don't know if he's alive
or dead. And there were other casualties. 
CRUSHER: Was Wes on the Bridge? 
PICARD: Yes. He took cover. I didn't see any more than that. But you
all right though? 
CRUSHER: Yes, they needed a doctor. 
PICARD: The side effects of the transport? 
CRUSHER: Yes. 
PICARD: We're getting closer to tracing their movements. Actually, it
was Wesley who put us onto this dimensional jump of theirs. He has been
extraordinary, Beverly. He's going to make a very fine officer. 
CRUSHER: He's had good role models. I'm sorry. If I'd only gone back to
the ship. 
PICARD: I should have beamed you up. 
CRUSHER: You wouldn't dare. 
PICARD: Oh yes I would, and should. 
CRUSHER: Without my permission? 
PICARD: If you don't follow orders. 
CRUSHER: If you'd give reasonable orders, I'd obey. 
PICARD: Doctor, I will be the judge of reasonable. 
CRUSHER: There aren't any exits to the surface. 
PICARD: So the only way out is by the transporter. Or the dimensional
jump. 
CRUSHER: A mode of travel I'd encourage you to avoid. It's killing
them. 
PICARD: They're mad. 
CRUSHER: I don't know any more. The difference between a madman and a
committed man willing to die for a cause. It's all become blurred over
the last few days. 
PICARD: Beverly, I don't have to remind you of the psychological impact
of being a hostage. 
CRUSHER: I know. I understand that. But their leader, Finn, he's not
what you'd expect. 
PICARD: No, he's certainly not what I would expect. Without cause or
reason, he and his little band of outlaws has attacked my ship!
CRUSHER: But he did have reasons. The medical supplies, the arrests.
Jean-Luc, if we really examined our role in all this 
PICARD: Beverly, you are arguing for a man who may have murdered your
son. 
FINN: I didn't kill your son, Beverly. We weren't able to destroy the
ship. We had to settle for him. She wouldn't even tell me her name. I
call her Doctor. 
PICARD: You have made a grave miscalculation. 
FINN: Oh? 
PICARD: You have assaulted a Federation starship, killed and wounded
several members of her crew, kidnapped two of her officers, and you
don't expect a response? 
FINN: On the contrary, I'm counting on it. 
PICARD: You want Federation involvement? 
FINN: Captain, the Federation has a lot to admire in it, but there's a
hint of moral cowardice in your dealings with non-aligned planets.
You're doing business with a government that is crushing us and you say
you're not involved. You're very, very much involved. You just don't
want to get dirty. 
PICARD: You accuse us of cowardice while you plant bombs in shadows? 
FINN: I am been fighting the only war that I can against an intractable
enemy. Now, I'm fighting a big war against a more powerful adversary.
Can't you see how that helps me? 
CRUSHER: I'm afraid I can't. 
PICARD: He's added another chair to the negotiating table. 
FINN: You added the chair, Captain. I am simply forcing you to sit in
it. The Federation will quickly tire of our little war. They'll want
you back. They will want to get as far away from Rutia as they can. And
I will not make it easy. Eventually, the Federation will force the
government into make concessions. And then a few more, and then a few
more. Until we can finally reach an honourable agreement that saves
face for all sides. Except we win. 
PICARD: You understand I will not cooperate with you in any way. 
FINN: You've already cooperated, Captain, just by coming here.

[Corridor]

(Finn jumps in, in pain, as Troi is walking
along)
FINN: I am not here to hurt you. Just hear what I have to say. Your
people are safe. How long they stay that way depends on you. We demand
an embargo and trade sanctions levied against Rutia. The Federation
will blockade the planet. No ships will be allowed in or out. This will
continue until the government of Rutia consents to talks mediated by a
Federation council. You have twelve hours to make your decision.

[Bridge]

WESLEY: Got it. We've pinpointed the Ansata base to
some three hundred kilometres from the city, on the southern tip of the
continent. 
DATA: Sensors indicate it is located thirty metres below the ground,
implying a cavern-like dwelling. 
RIKER: Any passages leading to the surface? 
DATA: Our readings show no evidence of any, Commander. 
RIKER: Any light they have must be artificially generated. 
ALEXANA: If we could shut that down, you could use the confusion to
find your people. 
WORF: Request permission to join the rescue party, sir. I owe it to the
Captain. 
RIKER: Permission granted. You have the bridge, Mister Data. 
DATA: Aye, sir. 
WESLEY: Commander? Good luck. 
RIKER: We'll bring her home, Wes.

[Infirmary]

FINN: You're glad to see your Captain.
CRUSHER: Yes. 
FINN: I may have to kill him. I just wanted to warn you. 
CRUSHER: He can help you, Finn. He is very influential. 
FINN: He will not help us. 
CRUSHER: If you could just convince him that your cause is 
FINN: You may be able to convince him, perhaps. Not I. 
CRUSHER: I've talked to him. I'll try. 
FINN: If our places were reversed, I would expect to die. 
CRUSHER: Your places would never be reversed. He would never forcibly
abduct you or play games with your life. He would treat you with
respect. 
FINN: I've treated you with respect. 
CRUSHER: You've scared the hell out of me, Finn. You've controlled me
through fear just like you've tried to control this whole continent. 
FINN: You haven't tasted real fear yet, Doctor. 
CRUSHER: Is that the best you can do? Is fear the only weapon you have?

FINN: No, but it's a good one. 
CRUSHER: You know what scares me the most, Finn? It scares me to think
that you might win this fight and gain real power. 
FINN: Doctor. I don't want you to fear me. 
(He gives her his sketch book. He's been doing studies of her eyes)

[Cavern]

(The rescue party of combined police and Starfleet
forces beam into an unoccupied passage. They use small devices to knock
out terrorists they find as they make their way to the main area) 
RIKER: Generator's right over there. 
[Side cave]

PICARD: Beverly, how dangerous would another ride
through the inverter be to us? 
CRUSHER: I don't know. But I don't want you to start thinking about 
PICARD: Beverly, it is our obligation to think of escape. 
CRUSHER: He's prepared to kill you. 
PICARD: An excellent reason to escape. Do you think you've gained his
confidence? 
(She shows him the sketch book) 
PICARD: Indeed you have. And more. This might prove to be an advantage
to us. 
CRUSHER: Jean-Luc, there are some things I want to tell you in case we
don't get out of this. 
(Then the lights go out) 
PICARD: Have they found us? 
[Cavern]

(There's a lot of people running around in the
twilight. A klaxon is blaring) 
VOICES: Turn those circuits on. Sandor, come with me. Do we have any
emergency power? 
(Worf and Riker take on some hand to hand, then the police dash in) 
POLICE: Freeze! Hold it right there. Hands up. Hands up, let's go. 
[Side cave]

(Finn points a gun at Picard, but Alexana is right
behind him) 
CRUSHER: Finn! 
(Alexana shoots Finn in the back. Worf frees Picard) 
CRUSHER: He's dead. 
RIKER: You didn't have to kill him. 
ALEXANA: As a prisoner he would have been a focus for violence as his
followers tried to free him. Now, he's a martyr. But the death toll
might go down, at least in the short term. It's an imperfect solution
for an imperfect world. 
(The boy appears, pointing a weapon at Alexana. A policeman has his
weapon trained on the child) 
PICARD: Riker! 
CRUSHER: No more killing. 
(The boy lowers the gun and is taken away) 
ALEXANA: Already another one to take his place. It never ends. 
RIKER: He could have killed you. He didn't. Maybe the end begins with
one boy putting down his gun.

