WORF CREWMAN WESLEY PICARD KATIK FINN CREWMAN [OC] CRUSHER DATA LAFORGE
avoid ansata years ones shifting corridor place main seventy

[Bridge]

DATA: A dimensional jump can create subspace
pressure modulation, Captain. By setting up a magnetosphere echogram
that can monitor each of their movements, we may be able to collect
enough data to trace their power source. 
PICARD: Can you estimate the number of jumps it will take? 
DATA: Dimensional shifting is such an unstable procedure, sir, that I
cannot say. Sir, I am finding it difficult to understand many aspects
of Ansata conduct. Much of their behavioral norm would be defined by my
programme as unnecessary and unacceptable. 
PICARD: By my programme as well, Data. 
DATA: But if that is so, Captain, why are their methods so often
successful? I have been reviewing the history of armed rebellion and it
appears that terrorism is an effective way to promote political change.

PICARD: Yes, it can be, but I have never subscribed to the theory that
political power flows from the barrel of a gun. 
DATA: Yet there are numerous examples where it was successful. The
independence of the Mexican State from Spain, the Irish Unification of
2024, and the Kensey Rebellion. 
PICARD: Yes, I am aware of them. 
DATA: Then would it be accurate to say that terrorism is acceptable
when all options for peaceful settlement have been foreclosed? 
PICARD: Data, these are questions that mankind has been struggling with
throughout history. Your confusion is only human.

[Infirmary]

KATIK: Finn, everyone is being rounded up. 
FINN: Because of her? 
KATIK: The Federation wants to negotiate her release. 
FINN: While they arrange for the Rutian police to fill up the detention
cells. 
KATIK: A Starfleet officer is working with the director. He wants a
meeting with you. 
FINN: I'm sure he does. Your Federation colleagues have engineered mass
arrests to pressure me into releasing you. 
CRUSHER: I'm sure you've misunderstood. 
FINN: They're working with the police. He's seen it with his own eyes. 
CRUSHER: All they want is to get me back safely. 
FINN: I'm not releasing you. I need you here. 
CRUSHER: To find a way to reverse the effects of the dimensional shift?
I can do that right now. Stop using it! I have a life, Finn. I have a
son who needs me. 
FINN: Is your son on the ship? 
CRUSHER: Yes. 
FINN: I'm sorry he's on the ship. 
CRUSHER: No. 
FINN: They have joined forces with the Rutians against us. 
CRUSHER: We are not your enemy. 
FINN: They are more valuable to me than an enemy. For seventy years we
have shouted, and no one's heard us. Destroy the Federation flagship,
someone will listen. 
CRUSHER: Please. 
FINN: They are the ones who interfered. They are the ones who sent
medical supplies. They are the ones who organised mass arrests. They
are killing your son, not me. 
CRUSHER: Please, Finn, don't do this. I will do anything you ask. 
FINN: I had a son, too. He was thirteen when he died in detention.

[Corridor]

(A female terrorist jumps into the corridor) 
CREWMAN: What? 
(She guns him down while the woman runs back round a corner) 
[Bridge]

WORF: Intruder alert, deck twelve. 
WESLEY: Another subspace reflection. Dimensional shift, sir. 
PICARD: Go to Red alert. Sound general quarters.

[Engineering]

(A man jumps into the upper core area and kills an
engineer) 
LAFORGE: Security to Engineering. 
(Geordi just manages to avoid a hail of bullets) 
[Bridge]

WORF: Intruders in Engineering 
DATA: Casualties reported on deck twelve. Sickbay responding. 
PICARD: Seal off all decks. Lock on transporters to the intruder
signals. 
CREWMAN [OC]: Intruder signals unstable, Captain, I cannot lock on. 
DATA: They are moving inter-dimensionally. Neither transporters nor
forcefields will contain them, sir.

[Engineering]

(Two terrorists place a bomb on the warp core and
jump out. Geordi has seen them) 
LAFORGE: Explosive charge on the main warp chamber. 
