ALEXANA RIKER LAFORGE PICARD WESLEY FINN CRUSHER DATA
difference methods watching freedom took errand hand moderate hate

[Infirmary]

(The whole place is a very big cavern, with
lighting, and people working. Finn hands Beverly her tricorder and
takes her behind a glass wall to the infirmary area) 
CRUSHER: I need some instruments from my ship in order to diagnose
this. 
FINN: You think if I allow you to contact your ship, they will
transport the instruments? 
CRUSHER: When I inform the Captain how serious the situation is, I'm
sure he'll agree. I've told you, Finn, the Federation is not allied
with Rutians. We're here on an errand of mercy. 
FINN: And since the Federation does not wish to take sides, they will
send the supplies that you need. 
CRUSHER: Absolutely. 
FINN: I've anticipated your needs. 
(A boy comes in carrying boxes) 
CRUSHER: These are Federation supplies. The ones we had delivered to
the medical dispensary. 
FINN: I heard.

[Alexana's office]

RIKER: You mean to tell me all these people belong
to the Ansata? 
ALEXANA: No, not really. We suspect the organisation itself only to
consist of some two hundred members. There are over five thousand names
on this list, citizens we know to be sympathetic to their cause. They
pass along weaponry and information, march in pro-Ansata
demonstrations, participate in general strikes or the occasional riot. 
RIKER: How did this ever get started? 
ALEXANA: Seventy years ago we denied them independence. That gave them
a noble cause. Now it's just an excuse for more violence. 
RIKER: You hate them as much as they hate you. 
ALEXANA: Believe it or not, I always considered myself moderate. 
RIKER: What changed your mind? 
ALEXANA: Being stationed here for six months, watching the body count
grow. The three assassination attempts on my life. 
RIKER: Well, that'll change your point of view. 
ALEXANA: The event that really opened my eyes took place only a few
days after my arrival. A terrorist bomb destroyed a shuttlebus. Sixty
schoolchildren. There were no survivors. The Ansata claimed that it was
a mistake, that their intended target was a police transport. As if
that made everything all right. That day I vowed that I would put an
end to terrorism in this city. And I will.

[Infirmary]

(The boy is staying with Beverly, handing her
things) 
CRUSHER: Thank you. You're very helpful. You could learn to do this
when you grow up. If you grow up. 
(She goes over to Finn) 
CRUSHER: They're dying. I'm seeing a complicated set of conditions.
Their DNA is warped somehow, and it's distorting their entire cellular
chemistry. 
FINN: You can't do anything? 
CRUSHER: I can make them more comfortable. That's all. The damage is
too extensive. 
[Cavern]

CRUSHER: If I could detect their condition earlier 
FINN: You could reverse the damage? 
CRUSHER: Perhaps. I don't know. What happened to them? 
FINN: It's the inverter. It's given our cause a new life, but it asks
for our lives in return. 
CRUSHER: What does it do? 
FINN: We transport through a dimensional shift that the Rutian sensors
can't trace. 
CRUSHER: Dimensional shifting? You can't do that with humanoid tissue. 
FINN: There are risks, the designers told us, But it works. 
CRUSHER: You're showing the same distorted readings. Not as severe as
the others, but 
FINN: It doesn't matter. 
CRUSHER: It does if it kills you. 
FINN: Don't you know? A dead martyr's worth ten posturing leaders.

[Engineering]

(Data and Wesley are examining the terrorist
device) 
DATA: A subspace field coil with an isolated power source. Curious. 
LAFORGE: Hey, guys. Come here. Look at this. The Rutian team picked up
a faint nuclear vibration during the terrorist movements. 
WESLEY: Nuclear vibration? 
DATA: That could possibly indicate subspace transition rebound during
transport. 
WESLEY: Wait a minute, wait a minute. May I? Computer, call up the
files on. What was his name? We spent two hours on him in astral
physics last year. Folded-space transport. 
LAFORGE: Adaptive transport. 
WESLEY: Yes. 
DATA: Are you referring to the Elway Theorem? 
WESLEY: Yes. Computer, call up the files on the Elway Theorem. What if
they're using inter-dimensional travel? 
DATA: But the Elway Theorem proved to be entirely inaccurate. All
research was abandoned by the mid-twenty third century. 
WESLEY: But Data, look, the nuclear vibrations are the same, and Elway
used a model similar to this. 
LAFORGE: It would certainly be untraceable by any standard method of
detection. 
DATA: But it was proven to be fatal. To use this technology would be an
irrational act. 
PICARD: We may be dealing with irrational people, Data. Is there a way
to trace this? 
LAFORGE: With an adaptive subspace echogram, maybe? 
DATA: Captain, anyone who is willing to transport in this manner, would
suffer significant internal damage that could be detected. 
PICARD: It sounds as though they may require the services of a doctor.

[Plaza]

(The waiter has been arrested) 
RIKER: This is no way to live. 
ALEXANA: For us or them? 
RIKER: For both of you. 
ALEXANA: I know it's not pretty, Riker, but this is what terrorism has
done to this city. 
RIKER: There's got to be a better way to deal with it than this. 
ALEXANA: My methods may seem harsh but believe me, they're gentle
compared to my predecessors. Suspects would be brought into police
headquarters and mysteriously vanish. I put a stop to that. 
RIKER: What happened to your predecessors? 
ALEXANA: They were murdered. 
RIKER: Are you going to tell me that little boy's a threat? 
(Two children are being handcuffed) 
ALEXANA: It's possible. That shuttlebus I told you about? The bomb was
set by a teenager. In a world where children blow up children,
everyone's a threat.

[Infirmary]

(Finn is sketching as Beverly tends to her patients
with the boy) 
CRUSHER: It's okay. Over there. 
(She sees what he's drawing - her hand holding another hand) 
CRUSHER: You should be drawing, not killing people. 
FINN: I can do both. 
CRUSHER: How can you have such a casual attitude toward killing? 
FINN: I take my killing very seriously, Doctor. You are an idealist. 
CRUSHER: I live in an ideal culture. There's no need for your kind of
violence. We've proven that. 
FINN: Your origins on Earth are from the American continent, are they
not? 
CRUSHER: North America. 
FINN: Yes, I've read your history books. This is a war for
independence, and I am no different than your own George Washington 
CRUSHER: Washington was a military general, not a terrorist. 
FINN: The difference between generals and terrorists, Doctor, is only
the difference between winners and losers. You win, you're called a
general. You lose 
CRUSHER: You are killing innocent people! Can't you see the immorality
of what you're doing or have you killed so much you've become blind to
it? 
FINN: How much innocent blood has been spilled for the cause of freedom
in the history of your Federation, Doctor? How many good and noble
societies have bombed civilians in war, have wiped out whole cities.
And now that you enjoy the comfort that has come from their battles,
their killing, you frown on my immorality? I am willing to die for my
freedom, Doctor.
And in the finest tradition of your own great civilisation, I'm willing
to kill for it, too.

