ALEXANA TROI PICARD RIKER WESLEY FINN CRUSHER

[Ready room]

TROI: We have no reason to believe she's been hurt
in any way. 
PICARD: In fact, it's more than likely that they will take good care of
her, if they want to use her as a bargaining chip. 
WESLEY: Bargaining chip? 
TROI: The innocent often become the pawns in conflicts of this type,
Wes. 
PICARD: You see, the Ansata separatists have been trying for
generations to freed themselves from the rule of the eastern continent.
If they can get the government just to acknowledge their demands, then
kidnapping your mother will have served its purpose. I think that may
be what they're after, but it may not. Frankly, Wesley, I don't care.
My only concern is to get your mother back. Very shortly, we shall be
leaving to have a meeting with the authorities. 
WESLEY: Request permission to be on the away team, sir. 
PICARD: No. You have an important job to do here. If we are to free
your mother, then we have to be able to trace the movements of the
terrorists. I want you to work with the team that are investigating
this new technology of theirs. 
WESLEY: I understand. 
PICARD: Report to Mister Data. Dismissed. 
(Wesley leaves) 
TROI: He needs your strength right now. 
PICARD: History has shown us that strength may be useless when faced
with terrorism.

[Alexana's office]

(The police chief's office is full of wall monitors
and such like) 
PICARD: And what exactly is Ansata policy with regard to hostages? 
ALEXANA: I doubt they have one. They don't usually take hostages. These
are not people we're dealing with here. They're animals. Fanatics who
kill without remorse or conscience. Who think nothing of murdering
innocent people. 
PICARD: But they could just as easily have shot her where she stood. 
ALEXANA: Don't ask me to explain them. I can't. The atrocities that
I've seen. And now they have this new device that makes them even more
deadly. How do I combat an enemy who fails to register on any scanner
until they're literally standing in front of you, pointing a phaser at
your head? 
RIKER: What can you tell us about this device? 
ALEXANA: Not much, really. They first started using it two months ago.
We've taken several of these off dead terrorists.
Our people have looked at them Nothing they can explain 
RIKER: Do you mind if we take one of these with us and have our people
study it? 
ALEXANA: Not at all. And I'll put you in touch with our research
people, if you wish. 
PICARD: I appreciate your help. 
ALEXANA: Perhaps if we found ourselves in possession of some of that
advanced Federation weaponry of yours, it would shift the balance of
power back to our favour. 
PICARD: Of course you know that is out of the question. 
ALEXANA: Yes, of course. 
PICARD: I would like to leave Commander Riker to assist in your search
for Doctor Crusher. 
ALEXANA: If you like. 
RIKER: You don't sound very optimistic. 
ALEXANA: I know my enemy, Commander. They don't leave much room for
optimism.

[Side cave]

(Beverly is lying down, trying to sleep) 
FINN: You hungry? You want something to eat? Relax, relax. I'm just
going to 
(He unshackles her ankles and then her wrists) 
FINN: Now eat something. What's the point of not eating? You're the
only one who suffers. Do I look like it's bothering me? Okay, it's
bothering me. Come on. 
(She takes the plate from him, and eats) 
FINN: No forks. Sorry. Did I mention my name is Finn? And you're? 
CRUSHER: Why have you brought me here? 
FINN: I need a doctor. 
CRUSHER: There are doctors on Rutia. 
FINN: I need someone better. I heard you were with the Federation
flagship and I knew you had to be. 
CRUSHER: Who told you that? 
FINN: I heard. Now you'll help me, just like you helped them. 
CRUSHER: What are you talking about? 
FINN: Your ship carries medical supplies for them, for the other side.
Why does the Federation ally itself with the Rutians? 
CRUSHER: We don't. All we did was bring 
FINN: Medical supplies. 
CRUSHER: People were hurt. 
FINN: I know. I hurt them. You're finished eating. Get up. Get up! 
CRUSHER: I have a son. 
FINN: You'll be with him again, Doctor. I see no reason to kill you. 
[Infirmary]

(The whole place is a very big cavern, with
lighting, and people working. Finn hands Beverly her tricorder and
takes her behind a glass wall to the infirmary area) 
CRUSHER: I need some instruments from my ship in order to diagnose
this. 
FINN: You think if I allow you to contact your ship, they will
transport the instruments? 
CRUSHER: When I inform the Captain how serious the situation is, I'm
sure he'll agree. I've told you, Finn, the Federation is not allied
with Rutians. We're here on an errand of mercy. 
FINN: And since the Federation does not wish to take sides, they will
send the supplies that you need. 
CRUSHER: Absolutely. 
FINN: I've anticipated your needs. 
(A boy comes in carrying boxes) 
CRUSHER: These are Federation supplies. The ones we had delivered to
the medical dispensary. 
FINN: I heard.

[Alexana's office]

RIKER: You mean to tell me all these people belong
to the Ansata? 
ALEXANA: No, not really. We suspect the organisation itself only to
consist of some two hundred members. There are over five thousand names
on this list, citizens we know to be sympathetic to their cause. They
pass along weaponry and information, march in pro-Ansata
demonstrations, participate in general strikes or the occasional riot. 
RIKER: How did this ever get started? 
ALEXANA: Seventy years ago we denied them independence. That gave them
a noble cause. Now it's just an excuse for more violence. 
RIKER: You hate them as much as they hate you. 
ALEXANA: Believe it or not, I always considered myself moderate. 
RIKER: What changed your mind? 
ALEXANA: Being stationed here for six months, watching the body count
grow. The three assassination attempts on my life. 
RIKER: Well, that'll change your point of view. 
ALEXANA: The event that really opened my eyes took place only a few
days after my arrival. A terrorist bomb destroyed a shuttlebus. Sixty
schoolchildren. There were no survivors. The Ansata claimed that it was
a mistake, that their intended target was a police transport. As if
that made everything all right. That day I vowed that I would put an
end to terrorism in this city. And I will.

[Infirmary]

(The boy is staying with Beverly, handing her
things) 
CRUSHER: Thank you. You're very helpful. You could learn to do this
when you grow up. If you grow up. 
(She goes over to Finn) 
CRUSHER: They're dying. I'm seeing a complicated set of conditions.
Their DNA is warped somehow, and it's distorting their entire cellular
chemistry. 
FINN: You can't do anything? 
CRUSHER: I can make them more comfortable. That's all. The damage is
too extensive. 
[Cavern]

CRUSHER: If I could detect their condition earlier 
FINN: You could reverse the damage? 
CRUSHER: Perhaps. I don't know. What happened to them? 
FINN: It's the inverter. It's given our cause a new life, but it asks
for our lives in return. 
CRUSHER: What does it do? 
FINN: We transport through a dimensional shift that the Rutian sensors
can't trace. 
CRUSHER: Dimensional shifting? You can't do that with humanoid tissue. 
FINN: There are risks, the designers told us, But it works. 
CRUSHER: You're showing the same distorted readings. Not as severe as
the others, but 
FINN: It doesn't matter. 
CRUSHER: It does if it kills you. 
FINN: Don't you know? A dead martyr's worth ten posturing leaders.

