PICARD [OC] ALEXANA RIKER WORF PICARD TROI WESLEY CRUSHER [OC] FINN CREWMAN [OC] CRUSHER DATA
ahead stood look office dealing question dead optimistic fanatics

[Plaza]

CRUSHER: Captain, I am trying to put life back into
a wounded body with sleight of hand. I'm not going anywhere. Data and
Worf 
[Bridge]

CRUSHER [OC]: Don't have to stay. Crusher out. 
PICARD: Transporter room, do you have lock on the away team? 
CREWMAN [OC]: Aye, sir. Shall I transport them? 
RIKER: I don't want to be in the transporter room to greet her. 
PICARD: Commander Data. 
[Plaza]

PICARD [OC]: Hold your position until the Rutian
medics arrive. 
DATA: Aye, sir. 
WORF: The tricorder is not reading any other explosive devices in this
vicinity. 
(Then a man pops in out of thin air) 
ALEXANA: Get out of the way! 
(The police draw their weapons and the man grabs Beverly's arm, then
shoots a policeman)
CRUSHER: You don't understand. I'm a 
(Then Beverly and the man vanish again)

[Observation lounge]

DATA: A transporter would leave residual ionization
in the air. Our tricorder readings found no trace after the incident. 
RIKER: People don't just appear and disappear. There must be some way
to track her. 
DATA: We have been unable to detect a signal from her communicator.
Either it has been deactivated or she is being held in a shielded
location. 
PICARD: Why her? 
WORF: Sir, I believe she was the intended target of the abduction. 
RIKER: Why would they want to take a Federation hostage? Their fight
doesn't involve us. 
WORF: It does now.

[Side cave]

(A man enters carrying a plate with what look like
pieces of meat on it)
FINN: You hungry? You want something to eat? 
(Beverly stares impassively straight ahead) 
FINN: I doesn't matter to me. You want to be hungry, be hungry. What's
your name? You're a doctor on a Federation starship. I always wondered
what it would be like to travel across the galaxy. It's not something
I've exactly had time for. This isn't the best way to meet new people,
is it? If you need anything, ask for me. My name is Kyril Finn. They
know me.

[Ready room]

TROI: We have no reason to believe she's been hurt
in any way. 
PICARD: In fact, it's more than likely that they will take good care of
her, if they want to use her as a bargaining chip. 
WESLEY: Bargaining chip? 
TROI: The innocent often become the pawns in conflicts of this type,
Wes. 
PICARD: You see, the Ansata separatists have been trying for
generations to freed themselves from the rule of the eastern continent.
If they can get the government just to acknowledge their demands, then
kidnapping your mother will have served its purpose. I think that may
be what they're after, but it may not. Frankly, Wesley, I don't care.
My only concern is to get your mother back. Very shortly, we shall be
leaving to have a meeting with the authorities. 
WESLEY: Request permission to be on the away team, sir. 
PICARD: No. You have an important job to do here. If we are to free
your mother, then we have to be able to trace the movements of the
terrorists. I want you to work with the team that are investigating
this new technology of theirs. 
WESLEY: I understand. 
PICARD: Report to Mister Data. Dismissed. 
(Wesley leaves) 
TROI: He needs your strength right now. 
PICARD: History has shown us that strength may be useless when faced
with terrorism.

[Alexana's office]

(The police chief's office is full of wall monitors
and such like) 
PICARD: And what exactly is Ansata policy with regard to hostages? 
ALEXANA: I doubt they have one. They don't usually take hostages. These
are not people we're dealing with here. They're animals. Fanatics who
kill without remorse or conscience. Who think nothing of murdering
innocent people. 
PICARD: But they could just as easily have shot her where she stood. 
ALEXANA: Don't ask me to explain them. I can't. The atrocities that
I've seen. And now they have this new device that makes them even more
deadly. How do I combat an enemy who fails to register on any scanner
until they're literally standing in front of you, pointing a phaser at
your head? 
RIKER: What can you tell us about this device? 
ALEXANA: Not much, really. They first started using it two months ago.
We've taken several of these off dead terrorists.
Our people have looked at them Nothing they can explain 
RIKER: Do you mind if we take one of these with us and have our people
study it? 
ALEXANA: Not at all. And I'll put you in touch with our research
people, if you wish. 
PICARD: I appreciate your help. 
ALEXANA: Perhaps if we found ourselves in possession of some of that
advanced Federation weaponry of yours, it would shift the balance of
power back to our favour. 
PICARD: Of course you know that is out of the question. 
ALEXANA: Yes, of course. 
PICARD: I would like to leave Commander Riker to assist in your search
for Doctor Crusher. 
ALEXANA: If you like. 
RIKER: You don't sound very optimistic. 
ALEXANA: I know my enemy, Commander. They don't leave much room for
optimism.

