TROI LAFORGE WORF PICARD RIKER Q DATA
itch mortal dreary lately advised need disappointed having mean

[Bridge]

PICARD: Our options? 
LAFORGE: We've done everything by the book and a little extra. We need
more time or more power, and we're short on both. I'll take a look and
see if there are any rules I haven't broken. 
PICARD: Keep me advised. 
(La Forge leaves. Q is now dressed in a pale mauve and olive jumpsuit) 
RIKER: We know you're behind this, Q. 
Q: These aren't my colours. And what are you blathering about, Riker? 
PICARD: What kind of twisted pleasure does it give you to bring terror
into their lives? 
Q: Whose lives? 
PICARD: The millions of people down there who are watching as their
moon falls out of the sky. 
Q: I haven't the vaguest idea what you're talking about and I have a
much more serious problem. I'm no longer a member of the Continuum. My
superiors have decided to punish me. 
PICARD: And punish us as well, it would seem. 
Q: They said I've spread chaos through the universe, and they've
stripped me of all my powers. You don't believe me, do you? Do you
think I would humiliate myself like this? 
RIKER: If it served your purpose, yes. 
Q: It's the truth. I stand before you defrocked. Condemned to be a
member of this lowest of species. A normal, imperfect, lumpen human
being. 
TROI: They made you human as part of your punishment? 
Q: No, it was my request. I could have chosen to exist as a Markoffian
sea lizard or a Belzoidian flea. Anything I
wished as long as it was mortal. And since I only had a fraction of a
second to mull and I chose this and asked them to bring me here. 
TROI: Why? 
Q: Because in all the universe you're the closest thing I have to a
friend, Jean-Luc. 
DATA: Sir, he is reading as fully human. 
Q: What, is there an echo in here? 
TROI: I am sensing an emotional presence, Captain. I would normally
describe it as being terrified. 
Q: How rude. 
PICARD: what is it you want, Q? 
Q: Your compassion. All right, Sanctuary on this ship, dreary as it may
sound to both of us. 
PICARD: Return that moon to its orbit. 
Q: I have no powers. Q the ordinary. 
PICARD: Q the liar. Q the misanthrope. 
Q: Q the miserable. Q the desperate. What must I do to convince you
people? 
WORF: Die. 
Q: Oh, very clever, Worf. Eat any good books lately? 
PICARD: Fine. You want to be treated as a human? 
Q: Absolutely. 
PICARD: All right. Mister Worf, throw him in the brig. 
WORF: Delighted, Captain. 
Q: You can't do this to me, Jean-Luc. 
WORF: You will walk or I will carry you. 
Q: Given the option, I'll walk. You've disappointed me, Jean-Luc. I'm
very disappointed. Hey, I'm claustrophobic, I don't like it in here. 
[Turbolift]

Q: It was a mistake. I never should have picked
human. I knew it the minute I said it. To think of the future in this
shell. Forced to cover myself with fabric because of some outdated
human morality. To say nothing of being too hot or too cold,
growing feeble with age, losing my hair, catching a disease, being
ticklish, sneezing, having an itch, a pimple, bad breath. Having to
bathe. 
WORF: Too bad.

[Corridor]

Q: Klingon. I should have said Klingon. In my heart
of hearts, I am a Klingon, Worf. 
(Q puts his hand on Worf's shoulder and quickly removes it) 
Q: Sorry. So you understand I could never survive in confinement. I
mean, this is cruel and unusual punishment.
The universe has been my back yard. As a fellow Klingon, if you would
speak to the Captain on my behalf, I would be eternally grateful. which
doesn't mean as much as it used to, I admit. 
WORF: Be quiet! Or disappear back where you came from. 
Q: I can't disappear any more than you could win a beauty contest. 
