RIKER WORF PICARD VOICES Q GUINAN COMPUTER DATA WAITRESS
wide require high member say computer doors highly enjoying

[Ten Forward]

Q: I've never eaten before. What do I ask for? 
DATA: The choice of meal is determined by individual taste. 
Q: What do you like? 
DATA: Although I do not require sustenance, I occasionally ingest
semi-organic nutrient suspension in a silicon-based liquid medium. 
Q: Is it good? 
DATA: It would be more accurate to say it is good for me, as it
lubricates my bio-functions. 
Q: It doesn't sound very appealing. What else is there? 
DATA: A wide variety of items. The replicator can make anything you
desire. 
Q: How do I know what I desire? 
DATA: I have observed that the selection of food is often influenced by
the mood of the person ordering. 
Q: I'm in a dreadful mood. Get me something appropriate. 
DATA: When Counsellor Troi is unhappy, she usually eats something
chocolate. 
Q: Chocolate? 
DATA: A chocolate sundae, for example. Although I do not speak from
personal experience, I have seen it have a profound psychological
impact. 
Q: I'll have ten chocolate sundaes. 
WAITRESS: Ten? 
DATA: I've never seen anyone eat ten chocolate sundaes. 
Q: I'm in a really bad mood, and since I've never eaten before, I
should be very hungry. 
(We hear the doors open and close) 
Q: This is not a moment I've been looking forward to. 
GUINAN: I hear they drummed you out of the Continuum. 
Q: I like to think of it as a significant career change. 
GUINAN: Just one of the boys, ay? 
Q: One of the boys with an IQ of two thousand and five. 
DATA: The Captain and many of the crew are not yet convinced he is
truly human. 
GUINAN: Really? 
(So she picks up a fork and stabs it into Q's hand) 
Q: Argh! 
GUINAN: Seems human enough to me. 
Q: This is a dangerous creature. You have no idea. Why Picard would
make her a member of the crew and not me 
GUINAN: It must be terribly frightening for you, to be totally
defenceless after all of those centuries being omnipotent. 
Q: I'm warning you. I still have friends in high places. 
GUINAN: Frightening one race after the other, teasing them like
frightened animals, and you enjoying every moment of your victims
fears. 
Q: From now on I'll do missionary work, okay? 
DATA: That would be a most noble cause, Q. 
GUINAN: You could learn a lot from this one. 
Q: Sure, the robot who teaches the course in humanities. 
DATA: I am an android, not a robot. 
Q: I beg your pardon. 
GUINAN: I'd enjoy that, and you'd better get used to it. 
Q: What? 
GUINAN: Begging. You're a pitiful excuse for a human. The only way
you're going to survive is by the charity of others. 
(Ten chocolate sundaes arrive) 
Q: I'm not hungry.

[Bridge]

WORF: Captain, sensors are picking up a cloud of
energetic plasma. Bearing, three-four one mark two zero. Range, twelve
kilometres and closing. 
PICARD: On screen. 
WORF: Energy patterns are reading as highly organized. 
RIKER: A lifeform? 
PICARD: Attempt to make contact, Mister Worf. 
WORF: Receiving a signal, sir. On speaker. 
(but it's unintelligible) 
RIKER: Computer, analyse signal 
COMPUTER: Signal patterns indicate intelligence. Unable to derive
necessary referents
to establish translation matrix.

[Ten Forward]

(The fuzzy thing can be seen through the windows,
but Q is sulking and doesn't notice it) 
VOICES: What's that? I don't know. 
GUINAN: Calamarain. 
(A white globe comes through the window and envelopes Q. He leaps up,
trying to brush it off) 
