Q PICARD GARIN RIKER WORF

[Corridor]

Q: Klingon. I should have said Klingon. In my heart
of hearts, I am a Klingon, Worf. 
(Q puts his hand on Worf's shoulder and quickly removes it) 
Q: Sorry. So you understand I could never survive in confinement. I
mean, this is cruel and unusual punishment.
The universe has been my back yard. As a fellow Klingon, if you would
speak to the Captain on my behalf, I would be eternally grateful. which
doesn't mean as much as it used to, I admit. 
WORF: Be quiet! Or disappear back where you came from. 
Q: I can't disappear any more than you could win a beauty contest. 
[Brig]

Q: If I ask a very simple question, do you think
you might be able to answer it without it troubling your intellect too
much? (He enters the cell) 
Q: Ready? Here goes. Would I permit you to lock me away if I still had
all my powers? 
WORF: You have fooled us too often, Q. 
Q: Perspicacity incarnate. Please don't feel compelled now to tell me
the story of the boy who cried Worf. 
WORF: Computer, activate force field. 
Q: I demand to be let out of here, immediately. Do you hear me? You
will deactivate this cell immediately! Romulan! 
(Worf leaves) 
Q: I should have said Romulan, that Klingon goat! 
[Ready room]

PICARD: The question is, what sort of jaded game is
he up to this time? 
RIKER: Maybe he just wants a big laugh. He'll take Bre'el Four to the
edge of disaster, and then pull the moon back. 
PICARD: Or he may have nothing to do with it at all. 
RIKER: You honestly think Q is telling the truth? 
PICARD: Oh, I agree this is highly unlikely, but we have to proceed
with our current dilemma as though Q is powerless to prevent it, don't
we? 
RIKER: And there he sits, and he watches us struggle. 
PICARD: I don't see that we have any choice. Mister Worf, will you hail
the Bre'el Four science station, 
WORF [OC]: They're standing by, Captain. 
GARIN [on monitor]: Yes, Captain Picard. 
PICARD: I'm sorry, but I have to report that our first attempt to
restore the moon to its proper orbit has failed. 
GARIN [on monitor]: We have less than twenty five hours before impact,
Captain. 
RIKER: Our Chief Engineer is working on ways to reinforce our tractor
beam. 
PICARD: So there is a hope, but if you have an evacuation plan 
GARIN [on monitor]: We have already started moving people from the
coastal areas of the western continent. 
PICARD: We are going to make another attempt shortly. Picard out. 
RIKER: I've got to tell you Geordi is not at all optimistic. 
(A bright light fills the room) 
PICARD: What the devil?

