RIKER LAFORGE WORF DATA [OC] Q [on viewscreen] RIKER [OC] LAFORGE [OC] Q COMPUTER PICARD CREWMAN [OC] CRUSHER
temperature feel falls feelings guard computer rising legs saved

[Bridge]

DATA [OC]: Two thousand five hundred degrees. 
LAFORGE [OC]: Moving to full impulse power. 
WORF: Calamarain resuming attack. 
(The ship is filled with bright light again) 
WORF: They've overpowered the shields. Hull penetration, deck thirty
six, Engineering. 
RIKER: Geordi, can you direct any more power to the shields?

[Engineering]

LAFORGE: We need all the power we have to get out
of the atmosphere, Commander. 
(Once again, the light wraps itself around Q) 
LAFORGE: Try activating the structural integrity field. 
(Q is pulled into the air. Data grabs his legs and the light wraps
around him, too) 
LAFORGE: It's not working. Structural field harmonics on manual. 
RIKER [OC]: La Forge. Hull temperature falling. We're in the clear. 
LAFORGE: Diverting power to forward sections now. 
(Q falls back to the deck, Data also falls over, with residual
electricity running over his body) 
[Sickbay]

LAFORGE: That charge nearly knocked out his
positronic net. 
RIKER: What can you do for him? 
LAFORGE: We can try to discharge and reset the motor pathways, recouple
the autonomic nodes. 
CRUSHER: There's overpressure in his fluidic systems. Thermal shock. If
he was mortal, he'd be dead. 
Q: Let us not overstate the matter here, Doctor. I'm mortal and I
survived. The cheers are overwhelming. 
PICARD: Q, you exceed your own standards of self-preoccupation. You
have no concern for an officer who may have saved your life. 
Q: He's strong, he'll survive. 
LAFORGE: Osmotic pressure still rising. Maybe we can by-pass the flow
regulator. 
CRUSHER: It would be helpful if everybody just got out of here now. 
PICARD: (to guard, as he leaves) Stay with Q.
LAFORGE: We'll let you know as soon as there's anything to tell you. 
RIKER: Geordi? The moon's trajectory? 
LAFORGE: All we did was buy ourselves another orbit, at most. We can
try again when the moon comes back to its perigee. 
RIKER: And when we drop our shields, the Calamarains go after Q again.
LAFORGE: Commander, he's not worth it.

[Ready room]

PICARD: Come. 
Q: You're right, of course. I am extraordinarily selfish. But it has
served me so well in the past. 
PICARD: It will not serve you here. 
Q: Don't be so hard on me, Jean-Luc. You've been a mortal all your
life. You know all about dying. I've never given it a second thought.
Or a first one, for that matter. I could have been killed. If it hadn't
been for Data and that one brief delay he created, I would have been
gone. No more me. And no one would have missed me, would they? Data may
have sacrificed himself for me. Why? 
PICARD: That is his special nature. He learned the lessons of humanity
well. 
Q: When I ask myself if I would have done the same for him, And I am
forced to answer no, I feel, I feel ashamed. 
PICARD: Q, I'm not your father confessor. You will receive no
absolution from me. You have brought nothing but pain and suffering to
this crew. And I'm still not entirely convinced that all this isn't
your latest attempt at a puerile joke. 
Q: It is a joke. A joke on me. The joke of the universe. The king who
would be man. As I learn more and more what it is to be human, I am
more and more convinced that I would never make a good one. I don't
have what it takes. Without my powers, I'm frightened of everything.
I'm a coward, and I'm miserable, and I can't go on this way.

[Sickbay]

(Q enters. Data is sitting up) 
CRUSHER: He's going to be all right. 
LAFORGE: We're recalibrating his language circuits, so he can't talk
yet. 
Q: There are creatures in the universe who would consider you the
ultimate achievement, android. No feelings, no emotions, no
pain. And yet you covet those qualities of humanity. Believe me, you're
missing nothing. But if it means anything to you, you're a better human
than I.

[Turbolift]

Q: Where's the main shuttlebay? 
COMPUTER: Main shuttlebay is located on deck four. 
Q: Take me there. 
[Bridge]

WORF: Captain, an unscheduled shuttle has just been
launched. 
PICARD: On main viewer. Hailing frequency. 
WORF: Frequencies open. 
PICARD: Shuttle occupant, identify yourself. 
Q [on viewscreen]: Don't try to talk me out of it, Jean-Luc. 
PICARD: Q, return to the ship immediately. 
Q [on viewscreen]: I just can't get used to following orders. 
WORF: Captain, the plasma cloud is moving toward the shuttle. 
Q [on viewscreen]: It's easier this way. They won't bother you after
I'm gone. 
RIKER: Engineering, prepare to extend shields. 
Q [on viewscreen]: Please, don't fall back on your tired clich of
charging to the rescue just in the nick of time. I don't want to be
rescued. My life as a human being has been a dismal failure. Perhaps my
death will have a little dignity. 
PICARD: Q, there is no dignity in this suicide. 
Q [on viewscreen]: Yes, I suppose you're right. Death of a coward,
then. So be it. But as a human, I would have died of boredom. 
PICARD: This goes against my better judgment. Transporter room three,
lock on to shuttle one. Beam it back into it's bay. 
CREWMAN [OC]: Aye, Captain. 
PICARD: It's a perfectly good shuttlecraft. 
CREWMAN [OC]: Captain, unable to transport. For some reason, I can't
lock on to the shuttlecraft. 
RIKER: Worf, are you sensing any sort of interference from the
Calamarain? 
WORF: No, sir, but they are still moving toward the shuttle. 
RIKER: Geordi, extend shields around shuttle one. 
LAFORGE [OC]: Extending shields.

[Engineering]

LAFORGE: Commander, the shields are frozen. 
RIKER [OC]: Cause? 
LAFORGE: Unknown. 
RIKER [OC]: Lock on tractor beam. 
LAFORGE: Tractor beam is not functioning either. 
