TROI LAFORGE WORF DATA [OC] PICARD LAFORGE [OC] RIKER Q GUINAN WORF [OC] DATA
protect observation light guidance grotesque valuable creature think help

[Ten forward]

(Data tries to assist Q, but encounters static
electricity and a possible forcefield) 
[Engineering]

LAFORGE: Adjusting shield harmonics, diverting
power to the forward grids.

[Bridge]

WORF: The added harmonics are blocking the tachyon
field.

[Ten forward]

(Q is freed, and falls to the floor) 
Q: Help me! Somebody, help me! 
GUINAN: How the mighty have fallen.

Captain's log, supplemental. We have sustained
light damage from an attack by an alien species known as the
Calamarain. They apparently have a grievance with Q. No doubt one of
many lifeforms that do.

[Observation lounge]

Q: The Calamarain are not very hospitable
creatures. They exist as swirls of ionised gas. 
PICARD: What did you do to them, Q? 
Q: Nothing bizarre, nothing grotesque. 
RIKER: You tormented them. 
Q: A subjective term, Riker. One creature's torment, is another
creature's delight. They simply have no sense of humour, a
character flaw with which you can personally identify. 
RIKER: I say we turn him over to them. 
Q: Oh, I take it back. You do have a sense of humour. A dreadful one at
that. 
RIKER: I'm serious. 
PICARD: Of course. You knew this would happen, didn't you? 
Q: One can never anticipate the Calamarain. They're very intelligent,
but very flighty. 
PICARD: Yes, but you must have so many enemies. Certainly you knew that
once you became mortal some of them might look you up. 
Q: It had occurred to me. 
PICARD: And for all your protestations of friendship, your real reason
for being here is protection. 
Q: You're very smart, Jean-Luc, but I know human beings. They're all
sopping over with compassion and forgiveness. They can't wait to
absolve almost any offence. It's an inherent weakness in the breed. 
PICARD: On the contrary, it is a strength. 
Q: You call it what you will, but I think you'll protect me even though
I've tortured you now and again. 
RIKER: Fighting off all the species you've insulted would be a full
time mission. That's not the one I signed up for. 
PICARD: Indeed. Human or not, I want no part of you. We will deposit
you at the first starbase. Let them deal with you. 
Q: But I could be a valuable member of the team. I'm human, I can
learn. 
DATA: He has provided important theoretical guidance for Geordi's
analysis of the Bre'el satellite, Captain. 
TROI: It seems you have an advocate, Q. 
DATA: I am merely stating a fact, Counsellor. 
PICARD: Mister La Forge, your status? 
LAFORGE [OC]: I've been putting together a programme to extend the
forward lobe of the warp field. The field coils

[Engineering]

LAFORGE: Aren't designed to envelop such a large
volume. But I'm attempting to modify their alignment parameters. 
DATA [OC]: Maintaining field integrity will be difficult, Geordi. 
LAFORGE: I'm pretty sure we can do it manually. The moon will come to
its perigee in fourteen minutes.

[Bridge]

PICARD: Mister Data, you will escort Q to
Engineering. You will assist Mister La Forge. Mister Worf, hail the
Bre'el Four science station. 
WORF [OC]: Aye, sir.

[Corridor]

Q: Picard thinks I can't cut it on his starship. I
can do anything his little trained minions can do. 
DATA: I do not perceive your skills to be in doubt, Q. The Captain is
more concerned with your ability to interact successfully with his
little trained minions. 
DATA: Human interpersonal relationships are more complex. Your
experiences may not have adequately prepared you. 
Q: I'm not interested in human interpersonal relationships. I just want
to prove to Picard that I'm indispensable. 
