Q PICARD RIKER DATA DATA [OC]
longer just aye ones wasn cosmos nice day toe

[Bridge]

(The light is everywhere) 
RIKER: Data? 
DATA: Sensors are showing broadband emissions, including Berthold rays 
RIKER: Lethal? 
DATA: No, Commander. Overall exposure is less than seventy five rems.
Very low intensity, more like a soft medical scan. I would speculate we
are being probed. 
PICARD: By whom? 
DATA: The sensors cannot identify the point of origin. It seems to be
coming from all around us. 
[Brig]

(The light becomes a globe hovering over the
sleeping Q, then disappears. He is awake when Picard enters) 
Q: Ah, you've come to apologise. How nice. All's forgiven. No offense
taken. 
PICARD: Enough. Q, what exactly is going on. 
Q: Well, how can I know what's going on? I've been in this dungeon of
yours, alone, helpless, bored to tears. 
PICARD: We have a moon inexplicably falling out of orbit, and just now
this ship was probed with Berthold radiation. 
Q: I wasn't aware of this. Truthfully, Jean-Luc. I have been entirely
preoccupied by a most frightening experience of
my own. A couple of hours ago, I realising that my body was no longer
functioning properly. I felt weak. I could no longer stand. The life
was oozing out of me. I lost consciousness. 
PICARD: You fell asleep. 
Q: Terrifying. How can you stand it day after day? 
PICARD: You get used to it. 
Q: What other dangers await me? I'm not prepared for this. I need
guidance. 
PICARD: Q, I'm not going to play along with this. If you want to
continue this charade, you can do it alone. 
Q: Jean-Luc, wait! (walks into the forcefield) This is getting on my
nerves, now that I have them. You have a moon in a deteriorating orbit.
I've known moons through the universe. Big ones, small ones. I'm an
expert. I could help you with this one, if you let me out of here. 
PICARD: Q, there are millions of lives at risk. If you have the power
to 
Q: I don't have any powers. But I have the knowledge, locked up in this
puny brain. You cannot afford to not take that advantage, can you? 
PICARD: Mister Data, report to detention cell three. 
DATA [OC]: On my way, sir. 
PICARD: Computer, remove the forcefield. If you are human, which I
seriously doubt, you will have to work hard to earn our trust. 
Q: I'm not worried about that, Jean-Luc. You only dislike me. There are
others in the cosmos who truly despise me. 
(Data enters) 
PICARD: Mister Data, you are hereby assigned to Q for the remainder of
his stay. You will escort him to Mister La Forge in Engineering. 
DATA: Aye, sir. 
(Picard leaves) 
Q: Can I have a Starfleet uniform? What are you looking at? 
DATA: I was considering the possibility that you are telling the truth,
that you really are human. 
Q: It's the ghastly truth, Mister Data. I can now stub my toe with the
best of them. 
DATA: An irony. It means that you have achieved in disgrace what I have
always aspired to be.

[Corridor]

Q: Humans are such commonplace little creatures.
They roam the galaxy looking for something, they know not what. 
DATA: The human race has an enduring desire for knowledge, and for new
opportunities to improve itself. 
Q: There's certainly room for improvement, but the truth is, Data, they
are a minor species in the grand scheme. Not worth your envy. 
DATA: Oh, I do not feel envy. 
Q: Well, that's good. 
DATA: I feel nothing at all. That is part of my dilemma. I have the
curiosity of humans, but there are questions I will never have the
answer to. What is it like to laugh, or cry, or to experience any human
emotions. 
Q: Well, if you ask me, these human emotions are not what they're
cracked up to be.

