LAFORGE DATA [OC] PICARD Q LAFORGE + DATA CRUSHER DATA
ones longer apologise remove bedside answer yes day minor

[Brig]

(The light becomes a globe hovering over the
sleeping Q, then disappears. He is awake when Picard enters) 
Q: Ah, you've come to apologise. How nice. All's forgiven. No offense
taken. 
PICARD: Enough. Q, what exactly is going on. 
Q: Well, how can I know what's going on? I've been in this dungeon of
yours, alone, helpless, bored to tears. 
PICARD: We have a moon inexplicably falling out of orbit, and just now
this ship was probed with Berthold radiation. 
Q: I wasn't aware of this. Truthfully, Jean-Luc. I have been entirely
preoccupied by a most frightening experience of
my own. A couple of hours ago, I realising that my body was no longer
functioning properly. I felt weak. I could no longer stand. The life
was oozing out of me. I lost consciousness. 
PICARD: You fell asleep. 
Q: Terrifying. How can you stand it day after day? 
PICARD: You get used to it. 
Q: What other dangers await me? I'm not prepared for this. I need
guidance. 
PICARD: Q, I'm not going to play along with this. If you want to
continue this charade, you can do it alone. 
Q: Jean-Luc, wait! (walks into the forcefield) This is getting on my
nerves, now that I have them. You have a moon in a deteriorating orbit.
I've known moons through the universe. Big ones, small ones. I'm an
expert. I could help you with this one, if you let me out of here. 
PICARD: Q, there are millions of lives at risk. If you have the power
to 
Q: I don't have any powers. But I have the knowledge, locked up in this
puny brain. You cannot afford to not take that advantage, can you? 
PICARD: Mister Data, report to detention cell three. 
DATA [OC]: On my way, sir. 
PICARD: Computer, remove the forcefield. If you are human, which I
seriously doubt, you will have to work hard to earn our trust. 
Q: I'm not worried about that, Jean-Luc. You only dislike me. There are
others in the cosmos who truly despise me. 
(Data enters) 
PICARD: Mister Data, you are hereby assigned to Q for the remainder of
his stay. You will escort him to Mister La Forge in Engineering. 
DATA: Aye, sir. 
(Picard leaves) 
Q: Can I have a Starfleet uniform? What are you looking at? 
DATA: I was considering the possibility that you are telling the truth,
that you really are human. 
Q: It's the ghastly truth, Mister Data. I can now stub my toe with the
best of them. 
DATA: An irony. It means that you have achieved in disgrace what I have
always aspired to be.

[Corridor]

Q: Humans are such commonplace little creatures.
They roam the galaxy looking for something, they know not what. 
DATA: The human race has an enduring desire for knowledge, and for new
opportunities to improve itself. 
Q: There's certainly room for improvement, but the truth is, Data, they
are a minor species in the grand scheme. Not worth your envy. 
DATA: Oh, I do not feel envy. 
Q: Well, that's good. 
DATA: I feel nothing at all. That is part of my dilemma. I have the
curiosity of humans, but there are questions I will never have the
answer to. What is it like to laugh, or cry, or to experience any human
emotions. 
Q: Well, if you ask me, these human emotions are not what they're
cracked up to be.

[Engineering]

LAFORGE: The moon will hit its perigee in ten
hours. Now, we match its trajectory, increase emitter coolant rate so
we can apply
continuous warp-equivalent power nine to the tractor beam. We can push
it for nearly seven hours and I think that just might do it. But,
there's a problem. 
DATA: The Enterprise will be dangerously close to the atmosphere. 
LAFORGE: That's the problem. 
Q: This is incredible. 
LAFORGE: You see something here, Q? 
Q: I think I just hurt my back. I'm feeling pain. I don't like it.
What's the right thing to say? Ow? 
LAFORGE + DATA: Ow. 
Q: Ow! I can't straighten up. 
DATA: Medical assistance to Engineering. 
LAFORGE: Q, I've got a few people down on Bre'el Four who are going to
be hurt 
Q: Yes, yes, your marvellous plan will not only tear the moon to pieces
but your precious ship as well. 
LAFORGE: You got a better idea? 
Q: I would certainly begin by examining the cause and not the symptom. 
LAFORGE: We've done that, Q, and there's no way to 
Q: This is obviously the result of a large celestial object passing
through at near right angles to the plane of the star system. Probably
a black hole. 
DATA: Can you recommend a way to counter the effect? 
Q: Simple. Change the gravitational constant of the universe. 
LAFORGE: What? 
Q: Change the gravitational constant of the universe, thereby altering
the mass of the asteroid. 
LAFORGE: Redefine gravity? How am I supposed to do that? 
Q: You just do it. Where's that Doctor, anyway? 
DATA: Geordi is trying to say that changing the gravitational constant
of the universe is beyond our capabilities. 
Q: Oh. In that case, never mind. 
(Crusher enters) 
Q: Ah, Doctor Crusher. I see Starfleet has shipped you back into exile.

DATA: Q says he has hurt his back. 
CRUSHER: Ah ha. Well, if I didn't see it with my own eyes, I wouldn't
believe it. According to this, he has classic back trauma. Muscle
spasms. 
Q: I've been under a lot of pressure lately. Family problems. 
CRUSHER: Well. don't expect too much sympathy from me. You've been a
pain in our backside often enough. 
Q: Your bedside manner is admirable, Doctor. I'm sure your patients
recover quickly just to get away from you. 
LAFORGE: You know, this might work. We can't change the gravitational
constant of the universe, but if we wrap a low level warp field around
that moon, we could reduce its gravitational constant. Make it lighter
so we can push it. 
Q: Glad I could help. Ow. I think. 
CRUSHER: Now what? 
Q: There's something wrong with my stomach. 
CRUSHER: It hurts? 
Q: It's making noises. 
CRUSHER: Maybe you're hungry.

