RIKER LAFORGE WORF PICARD GARIN Q SCIENTIST DATA

[Corridor]

Q: Picard thinks I can't cut it on his starship. I
can do anything his little trained minions can do. 
DATA: I do not perceive your skills to be in doubt, Q. The Captain is
more concerned with your ability to interact successfully with his
little trained minions. 
DATA: Human interpersonal relationships are more complex. Your
experiences may not have adequately prepared you. 
Q: I'm not interested in human interpersonal relationships. I just want
to prove to Picard that I'm indispensable. 
[Turbolift]

DATA: Engineering. To function aboard a starship,
or in any human activity, you must learn to form relationships. 
Q: It's so hard. 
DATA: And of more immediate importance is your ability to work within
groups. 
Q: I'm not good in groups. It's difficult working in a group when
you're omnipotent.

[Bridge]

GARIN [on viewscreen]: The tides reached ten metres
on the last orbit. They are already beginning to swell again. We have a
lot of frightened people down here, Captain. 
PICARD: Your moon has begun moving toward its perigee. We're prepared
to make our attempt. 
SCIENTIST [on viewscreen]: Our population has already taken shelter,
but I'm afraid no shelter will be adequate if you fail. Especially for
the people on the western continent. 
GARIN [on viewscreen]: Whatever the results, we know you've done your
best, Picard. It's appreciated. 
PICARD: We'll keep you advised, Doctor. Picard out. 
WORF: Captain, sensors are picking up an increased energy output from
the Calamarain. 
LAFORGE [OC]: La Forge to Bridge. 
[Engineering]

LAFORGE: The moon has reached its minimum orbital
distance. It's time, Captain. 
[Bridge]

RIKER: We'll have to lower shields. 
PICARD: Proceed. Mister Worf, keep a close eye on Q's friends out
there. 
WORF: Understood.

[Engineering]

Q: All right, everyone, this is what we're going to
be doing. 
LAFORGE: Q, everybody already knows what they're going to do, except
for you, Now here's what I need. 
Q: La Forge, obviously my knowledge and experience far exceed yours by
about a billion times. So, if you'll just step aside gracefully. 
LAFORGE: Q, your experience will be most valuable to me if you can
manually control the field integrity. 
Q: Don't be foolish. That would be a waste of my talents. 
LAFORGE: Q, get to the controls or get the hell out of here. Data,
you're my liaison
to the Bridge. I'll need you with me. 
Q: Who does he think he is, giving me orders. 
DATA: Geordi thinks he is in command here, and he is correct.

[Bridge]

RIKER: Engineering, holding at station keeping,
range six hundred and forty metres. 
DATA [OC]: Containment fields to flight tolerance.

[Engineering]

DATA: Warp core to ninety percent. 
LAFORGE: Engage field coils. Tractor beam to stand by. Field output?
(nudges Q) Field output? 
Q: Two seventeen. 
LAFORGE: Impulse engines to full. Ready to engage tractor beam. 
