RIKER LAFORGE WORF PICARD Q GUINAN COMPUTER CRUSHER DATA WAITRESS

[Engineering]

LAFORGE: The moon will hit its perigee in ten
hours. Now, we match its trajectory, increase emitter coolant rate so
we can apply
continuous warp-equivalent power nine to the tractor beam. We can push
it for nearly seven hours and I think that just might do it. But,
there's a problem. 
DATA: The Enterprise will be dangerously close to the atmosphere. 
LAFORGE: That's the problem. 
Q: This is incredible. 
LAFORGE: You see something here, Q? 
Q: I think I just hurt my back. I'm feeling pain. I don't like it.
What's the right thing to say? Ow? 
LAFORGE + DATA: Ow. 
Q: Ow! I can't straighten up. 
DATA: Medical assistance to Engineering. 
LAFORGE: Q, I've got a few people down on Bre'el Four who are going to
be hurt 
Q: Yes, yes, your marvellous plan will not only tear the moon to pieces
but your precious ship as well. 
LAFORGE: You got a better idea? 
Q: I would certainly begin by examining the cause and not the symptom. 
LAFORGE: We've done that, Q, and there's no way to 
Q: This is obviously the result of a large celestial object passing
through at near right angles to the plane of the star system. Probably
a black hole. 
DATA: Can you recommend a way to counter the effect? 
Q: Simple. Change the gravitational constant of the universe. 
LAFORGE: What? 
Q: Change the gravitational constant of the universe, thereby altering
the mass of the asteroid. 
LAFORGE: Redefine gravity? How am I supposed to do that? 
Q: You just do it. Where's that Doctor, anyway? 
DATA: Geordi is trying to say that changing the gravitational constant
of the universe is beyond our capabilities. 
Q: Oh. In that case, never mind. 
(Crusher enters) 
Q: Ah, Doctor Crusher. I see Starfleet has shipped you back into exile.

DATA: Q says he has hurt his back. 
CRUSHER: Ah ha. Well, if I didn't see it with my own eyes, I wouldn't
believe it. According to this, he has classic back trauma. Muscle
spasms. 
Q: I've been under a lot of pressure lately. Family problems. 
CRUSHER: Well. don't expect too much sympathy from me. You've been a
pain in our backside often enough. 
Q: Your bedside manner is admirable, Doctor. I'm sure your patients
recover quickly just to get away from you. 
LAFORGE: You know, this might work. We can't change the gravitational
constant of the universe, but if we wrap a low level warp field around
that moon, we could reduce its gravitational constant. Make it lighter
so we can push it. 
Q: Glad I could help. Ow. I think. 
CRUSHER: Now what? 
Q: There's something wrong with my stomach. 
CRUSHER: It hurts? 
Q: It's making noises. 
CRUSHER: Maybe you're hungry.

[Ten Forward]

Q: I've never eaten before. What do I ask for? 
DATA: The choice of meal is determined by individual taste. 
Q: What do you like? 
DATA: Although I do not require sustenance, I occasionally ingest
semi-organic nutrient suspension in a silicon-based liquid medium. 
Q: Is it good? 
DATA: It would be more accurate to say it is good for me, as it
lubricates my bio-functions. 
Q: It doesn't sound very appealing. What else is there? 
DATA: A wide variety of items. The replicator can make anything you
desire. 
Q: How do I know what I desire? 
DATA: I have observed that the selection of food is often influenced by
the mood of the person ordering. 
Q: I'm in a dreadful mood. Get me something appropriate. 
DATA: When Counsellor Troi is unhappy, she usually eats something
chocolate. 
Q: Chocolate? 
DATA: A chocolate sundae, for example. Although I do not speak from
personal experience, I have seen it have a profound psychological
impact. 
Q: I'll have ten chocolate sundaes. 
WAITRESS: Ten? 
DATA: I've never seen anyone eat ten chocolate sundaes. 
Q: I'm in a really bad mood, and since I've never eaten before, I
should be very hungry. 
(We hear the doors open and close) 
Q: This is not a moment I've been looking forward to. 
GUINAN: I hear they drummed you out of the Continuum. 
Q: I like to think of it as a significant career change. 
GUINAN: Just one of the boys, ay? 
Q: One of the boys with an IQ of two thousand and five. 
DATA: The Captain and many of the crew are not yet convinced he is
truly human. 
GUINAN: Really? 
(So she picks up a fork and stabs it into Q's hand) 
Q: Argh! 
GUINAN: Seems human enough to me. 
Q: This is a dangerous creature. You have no idea. Why Picard would
make her a member of the crew and not me 
GUINAN: It must be terribly frightening for you, to be totally
defenceless after all of those centuries being omnipotent. 
Q: I'm warning you. I still have friends in high places. 
GUINAN: Frightening one race after the other, teasing them like
frightened animals, and you enjoying every moment of your victims
fears. 
Q: From now on I'll do missionary work, okay? 
DATA: That would be a most noble cause, Q. 
GUINAN: You could learn a lot from this one. 
Q: Sure, the robot who teaches the course in humanities. 
DATA: I am an android, not a robot. 
Q: I beg your pardon. 
GUINAN: I'd enjoy that, and you'd better get used to it. 
Q: What? 
GUINAN: Begging. You're a pitiful excuse for a human. The only way
you're going to survive is by the charity of others. 
(Ten chocolate sundaes arrive) 
Q: I'm not hungry.

[Bridge]

WORF: Captain, sensors are picking up a cloud of
energetic plasma. Bearing, three-four one mark two zero. Range, twelve
kilometres and closing. 
PICARD: On screen. 
WORF: Energy patterns are reading as highly organized. 
RIKER: A lifeform? 
PICARD: Attempt to make contact, Mister Worf. 
WORF: Receiving a signal, sir. On speaker. 
(but it's unintelligible) 
RIKER: Computer, analyse signal 
COMPUTER: Signal patterns indicate intelligence. Unable to derive
necessary referents
to establish translation matrix.

