RIKER LAFORGE WORF PICARD Q COMPUTER CREWMAN CRUSHER

[Sickbay]

LAFORGE: That charge nearly knocked out his
positronic net. 
RIKER: What can you do for him? 
LAFORGE: We can try to discharge and reset the motor pathways, recouple
the autonomic nodes. 
CRUSHER: There's overpressure in his fluidic systems. Thermal shock. If
he was mortal, he'd be dead. 
Q: Let us not overstate the matter here, Doctor. I'm mortal and I
survived. The cheers are overwhelming. 
PICARD: Q, you exceed your own standards of self-preoccupation. You
have no concern for an officer who may have saved your life. 
Q: He's strong, he'll survive. 
LAFORGE: Osmotic pressure still rising. Maybe we can by-pass the flow
regulator. 
CRUSHER: It would be helpful if everybody just got out of here now. 
PICARD: (to guard, as he leaves) Stay with Q.
LAFORGE: We'll let you know as soon as there's anything to tell you. 
RIKER: Geordi? The moon's trajectory? 
LAFORGE: All we did was buy ourselves another orbit, at most. We can
try again when the moon comes back to its perigee. 
RIKER: And when we drop our shields, the Calamarains go after Q again.
LAFORGE: Commander, he's not worth it.

[Ready room]

PICARD: Come. 
Q: You're right, of course. I am extraordinarily selfish. But it has
served me so well in the past. 
PICARD: It will not serve you here. 
Q: Don't be so hard on me, Jean-Luc. You've been a mortal all your
life. You know all about dying. I've never given it a second thought.
Or a first one, for that matter. I could have been killed. If it hadn't
been for Data and that one brief delay he created, I would have been
gone. No more me. And no one would have missed me, would they? Data may
have sacrificed himself for me. Why? 
PICARD: That is his special nature. He learned the lessons of humanity
well. 
Q: When I ask myself if I would have done the same for him, And I am
forced to answer no, I feel, I feel ashamed. 
PICARD: Q, I'm not your father confessor. You will receive no
absolution from me. You have brought nothing but pain and suffering to
this crew. And I'm still not entirely convinced that all this isn't
your latest attempt at a puerile joke. 
Q: It is a joke. A joke on me. The joke of the universe. The king who
would be man. As I learn more and more what it is to be human, I am
more and more convinced that I would never make a good one. I don't
have what it takes. Without my powers, I'm frightened of everything.
I'm a coward, and I'm miserable, and I can't go on this way.

[Sickbay]

(Q enters. Data is sitting up) 
CRUSHER: He's going to be all right. 
LAFORGE: We're recalibrating his language circuits, so he can't talk
yet. 
Q: There are creatures in the universe who would consider you the
ultimate achievement, android. No feelings, no emotions, no
pain. And yet you covet those qualities of humanity. Believe me, you're
missing nothing. But if it means anything to you, you're a better human
than I.

[Turbolift]

Q: Where's the main shuttlebay? 
COMPUTER: Main shuttlebay is located on deck four. 
Q: Take me there. 
[Bridge]

WORF: Captain, an unscheduled shuttle has just been
launched. 
PICARD: On main viewer. Hailing frequency. 
WORF: Frequencies open. 
PICARD: Shuttle occupant, identify yourself. 
Q [on viewscreen]: Don't try to talk me out of it, Jean-Luc. 
PICARD: Q, return to the ship immediately. 
Q [on viewscreen]: I just can't get used to following orders. 
WORF: Captain, the plasma cloud is moving toward the shuttle. 
Q [on viewscreen]: It's easier this way. They won't bother you after
I'm gone. 
RIKER: Engineering, prepare to extend shields. 
Q [on viewscreen]: Please, don't fall back on your tired clich of
charging to the rescue just in the nick of time. I don't want to be
rescued. My life as a human being has been a dismal failure. Perhaps my
death will have a little dignity. 
PICARD: Q, there is no dignity in this suicide. 
Q [on viewscreen]: Yes, I suppose you're right. Death of a coward,
then. So be it. But as a human, I would have died of boredom. 
PICARD: This goes against my better judgment. Transporter room three,
lock on to shuttle one. Beam it back into it's bay. 
CREWMAN [OC]: Aye, Captain. 
PICARD: It's a perfectly good shuttlecraft. 
CREWMAN [OC]: Captain, unable to transport. For some reason, I can't
lock on to the shuttlecraft. 
RIKER: Worf, are you sensing any sort of interference from the
Calamarain? 
WORF: No, sir, but they are still moving toward the shuttle. 
RIKER: Geordi, extend shields around shuttle one. 
LAFORGE [OC]: Extending shields.

[Engineering]

LAFORGE: Commander, the shields are frozen. 
RIKER [OC]: Cause? 
LAFORGE: Unknown. 
RIKER [OC]: Lock on tractor beam. 
LAFORGE: Tractor beam is not functioning either. 
[Bridge]

RIKER: What the hell is going on?

[Shuttlecraft]

Q2: Not bad, Q. Not great. But not bad. 
(Dressed in a similar fashion, and stepping through the bulkhead. This
Q looks at his hands as if they are something completely new to him) 
Q: Q! 
Q2: Sacrificing yourself for these humans? Do I detect a little
selfless act? 
Q: You flatter me. I was only trying to put a quick end to a miserable
existence. 
Q2: What a dreadful colour. 
Q: Yeah. What are you doing here? 
Q2: I've been keeping track of you. 
Q: I always felt you were in my corner. 
Q2: Actually, I was the one who got you kicked out. You know, you're
incorrigible, Q. A lost cause. I can't go to a single solar system
without having to apologise for you, and I'm tired of it. 
Q: I wasn't the one who misplaced the entire Deltived asteroid belt. 
Q2: Hey, this isn't about me. I've got better places to be. But
somebody had to keep an eye on you to make sure you still didn't find a
way to cause trouble. Even as a member of this limited species. 
Q: Well, I hope I've been entertaining you. 
Q2: Barely. But I find these humans rather interesting. I'm beginning
to understand what you see in them. After all the
things that you've done, they're still intent on keeping you safe. 
Q: A genetic weakness of the race. 
Q2: And they're still at it. They just tried to beam you up, back,
whatever it is they call it. 
Q: Really? 
Q2: I stopped them. 
Q: Well, if the Calamarains hurry up and finish me off, we can get you
back on your way. 
Q2: Afraid I had to put them on hold too. You see, there's still this
matter of the selfless act. You and I both know that the Calamarain
would have eventually destroyed the Enterprise to get to you. And
that's really why you left, right? 
Q: It was a teeny bit selfless, wasn't it? 
Q2: And there's my problem. See, I can't back to the Continuum and tell
them you committed a selfless act just before the end. If I do there's
going to be questions and explanations for centuries. 
Q: I've learned my lesson, Q. 
Q2: Remember who you're talking to. All knowing, all seeing. Fine, you
got your powers back. Try and stay out of trouble. 
(Q2 vanishes, and Q snaps his fingers. He gets himself a Starfleet
uniform) 
Q: So they wanted to destroy me, did they? 
(The Calamarain are in the palm of his hand) 
Q: If you think I tormented you in the past, my little friends, wait
until you see what I do with you now. 
Q2: Q? 
Q: I was just seeing if you were still watching. 
(Q blows the Calamarain away, gently)

