TROI LAFORGE WORF MANUA TAYNA PICARD KRAG RIKER WESLEY COMPUTER RIKER [OC] DATA APGAR [OC] APGAR
scanning terrible stay better lieutenant minimum mistake exact difficult

[Bridge]

LAFORGE: The Tanugans are right. Something was
fired at the reactor core just before transport. 
DATA: The energy signature would seem to indicate a phaser-like blast. 
WESLEY: Well, it wasn't the commander's phaser. It couldn't have been.
There's another answer. We're just not seeing it. 
DATA: Was there anything else in the lab capable of creating this kind
of energy discharge? 
LAFORGE: Not that I saw. Besides, how do you account for the fact that
it came from Commander's Riker's exact position. Damn it, I should have
stayed with him. 
WORF: Commander, sensors indicate a radiation burst on deck thirty
nine, outside cargo bay twelve. 
DATA: Source? 
WORF: Unknown, sir. 
DATA: Computer, identify type of radiation. 
COMPUTER: Emission is not consistent with any known radiation. 
WORF: It is subsiding, sir.

[Corridor]

(Wesley is scanning a blister and hole in the
bulkhead) 
WESLEY: What kind of radiation could do this? Make any sense to you? 
LAFORGE: I don't recognise it. Not even the main deflector puts out
that kind of spillage. 
WESLEY: Where would it be coming from? 
LAFORGE: I don't know, Wes, but whatever it is, it's capable of putting
a hole in solid duranium.

[Holodeck - Space Station Lab]

(Krag enters with Manua, in demure neck to ankle
dress) 
KRAG: In a sense we have already met Mrs. Apgar, so we shall dispense
with introductions. 
PICARD: Mrs. Apgar, you understand the purpose of this hearing? 
TROI: We understand how difficult this will be for you. If you need a
recess, please, don't hesitate to ask. 
PICARD: Would you like to make a statement before we begin? 
MANUA: No. I just know he did it. He killed my husband. 
KRAG: Computer, load Manua simulation one. 
[Holodeck - Space Station Living quarters]

KRAG: Run programme. 
MANUA: If you greet them with such a long face they're going to assume
something is wrong with the experiment. 
APGAR: I just need time. A little more time. 
MANUA: I'm certain they'll give you the time you need if you just show
a little charm. 
APGAR: You do that so much better than I do. (they kiss) Manua, someday
I'll be able to reward you for all your patience. I'll get you
everything you ever dreamed of. 
MANUA: I have all the reward I need. Now go on, I'll be right in. 
(Apgar leaves)
RIKER [OC]: Doctor Apgar? 
[Holodeck - Space Station Lab]

RIKER: I'm Commander William Riker. Lieutenant
Commander Geordi La Forge. 
APGAR [OC]: My assistant, Tayna. Well, let's get on with it, shall we? 
MANUA: Don't be in such a hurry, dear. Perhaps our guests would like
some refreshment? 
APGAR: My wife, Manua. 
RIKER: It's a pleasure to meet you, Manua. 
APGAR: I'm anxious to get started. 
RIKER: If you wish. 
APGAR: I must say I resent your early arrival, Commander I have much
work to do. 
RIKER: Doctor, I'll do everything in my power to make this as painless
as possible for both of us. Do you assist your husband in his work? 
MANUA: Oh, dear, no. I'm no scientist. 
RIKER: No, neither am I. 
MANUA: But I find this all fascinating, don't you? 
RIKER: Mister La Forge, why don't you take a look at the doctor's
experimental data. Later, you can give me an overview. 
APGAR: Fine. Whatever. Starfleet will get its Krieger wave converter.
These things take time. I've had a few setbacks, that's all. 
RIKER: Doctor, I'm not trying to put any pressure on you. I'm sure my
report will only underscore the need for continued
support of your research. 
APGAR: Tayna, I'll call up the records. Show the Commander's assistant
whatever he wants to see. 
TAYNA: Yes, Doctor. If you'll come with me? Our field generator is on
the planet, since it requires a minimum of five thousand
kilometres for the field to collimate. 
MANUA: Darling, let Tayna take care of that. I'm sure Commander Riker
wants to hear how close you are to a breakthrough. I'll pour the two of
you a drink and you can talk all about Krieger waves. 
[Holodeck - Space Station Living quarters ]

MANUA: (handing out the drinks) Commander. 
APGAR: To success. 
RIKER: Success. 
APGAR: Well, in a way, I suppose it's good that you're early. Manua's
right, it gives me a chance to show you the progress we've been making.

RIKER: I'd appreciate it if Commander La Forge and I could stay here
until the Enterprise returns. 
(Riker is continually staring at Manua) 
MANUA: It's a little inconvenient. 
RIKER: It would help to accelerate the process. 
APGAR: Well, if you wish, Commander. Now, where shall I start? Well,
first of all, you should know that I am very close to being able to
collimate a Krieger field.

[Holodeck - Space Station Guest quarters]

MANUA: Our guest quarters are very modest. 
RIKER: Very charming. It has your touch. 
MANUA: The station is small, and we don't often have guests. I use this
as my sanctuary. 
RIKER: Who do you need sanctuary from? 
MANUA: The environmental controls are here. 
(Riker closes the doors) 
MANUA: Commander, please. It's late and I'm tired. 
RIKER: A man more interested in Krieger waves than in a lovely woman
like you. How is that possible? 
MANUA: My husband is one of the great minds in the galaxy and we love
each other very much. 
(Riker pulls her towards him) 
MANUA: Please don't. 
RIKER: It must be very lonely. A princess in a very high tower. 
MANUA: Please, my husband will be looking for me. 
RIKER: Your sanctuary, remember? 
(Riker slips her dress off her shoulders) 
MANUA: Commander, don't, please! 
RIKER: (the real one) She's lying! That never happened. 
PICARD: Freeze programme. 
MANUA: Please. 
(Programme stops) 
RIKER: Captain, you know I would never act like that. 
PICARD: Commander Riker! 
RIKER: This isn't me. I wasn't the one who closed the door. I didn't
proposition her and I certainly didn't try to rape her. Why are you
doing this? 
MANUA: (real one) It's exactly what happened. 
TROI: Will, come on, sit down. 
KRAG: Resume programme. 
MANUA: Please. 
(Apgar enters) 
APGAR: I knew you'd try this, Riker. Do you think I didn't notice how
you looked at her? I'm not the fool you take me for. 
(Apgar takes a swing at him, gets blocked and is given two punches to
the stomach in return) 
APGAR: You won't get away with this. Your career is over. I'll see to
it. I swear I will, Riker. 
RIKER: If you report this, you'll be making a terrible mistake, Doctor.
A terrible mistake. 
(Apgar and Manua leave) 
KRAG: Freeze programme. 
MANUA: Your career was safe. He was a scientist. In another day some
fascinating bit of technical trivia would have distracted him. He would
have forgotten about you and his complaint to Starfleet. Excuse me. 
(Manua leaves the holodeck) 
PICARD: We'll, um, we'll take a short recess. 
(Picard and Krag leave) 
RIKER: Why would she lie like that? She was lying. You could tell. 
TROI: Will, I didn't sense any deception from her. 
RIKER: Then you think that I? 
TROI: No! No, of course not. I know you. You don't have to convince me
of anything. 
RIKER: We can't both be telling the truth. 
TROI: It is the truth as each of you remembers it. 
RIKER: But her version puts a noose around my neck.

