RIKER OBRIEN LAFORGE WORF PICARD KRAG DATA

[Bridge]

O'BRIEN: He's aboard. 
[Transporter room]

RIKER: Why do you sound so surprised, Mister
O'Brien? 
O'BRIEN: For a moment, we weren't sure you left the space station in
time. 
RIKER: In time for what? 
O'BRIEN: It just exploded, sir.

Captain's log, supplemental. Commander Riker has
informed me that Doctor Apgar was the only one aboard the space station
when it exploded. We remain in orbit investigating the accident. 
[Transporter room]

O'BRIEN: I've gone through the whole system,
Captain. I can't find any malfunction in the transporter.

[Transporter room]

O'BRIEN [OC]: Nothing that would cause an explosion
like that 
PICARD: Why was there a power drain before
transport? 
O'BRIEN [OC]: I don't know, sir. 
PICARD: I shall want an answer to that. I'm sure the Tanugans will too.

O'BRIEN [OC]: Yes, sir. 
DATA: Captain, the radiation and debris are consistent with an overload
of the station's reactor core. 
PICARD: Were there any indications of reactor core problems while you
were on the station? 
LAFORGE: No, sir. 
PICARD: Number One? Mister La Forge indicated that this was not an
entirely routine mission. 
RIKER: It's a long story, sir, but I'm sure it doesn't have anything to
do with this accident. 
WORF: Captain, Chief Investigator Krag of the Tanugan security force
requests permission to beam aboard. 
PICARD: Granted. Will you escort him to the Bridge, Mister Worf. 
WORF: Aye, sir. 
PICARD: Perhaps you had tell me as much as possible prior to his
arrival, Number One.

[Transporter room]

(A humanoid male, hair swept up at the sides to
give a severe look) 
WORF: I'm Lieutenant Worf, head of ship's Security. I will take you to
the Captain.

[Bridge]

PICARD: Chief Investigator, welcome to the
Enterprise. I'm Captain Picard. This is my First Officer, Commander
William Riker. 
KRAG: Commander Riker, I am here to take you into custody. 
RIKER: Custody? On what charge? 
KRAG: Suspicion of murder. 
RIKER: Murder? Now wait a minute, you can't come on 
PICARD: Chief Investigator, we are perfectly willing to cooperate with
you, but 
KRAG: Then release the prisoner for transportation to the planet. 
PICARD: Let's continue this discussion in private. Number One, you have
the Bridge.

[Ready room]

PICARD: Just what is the evidence against my
officer? 
KRAG: Two witnesses have come forward to describe Commander Riker's
threats against Doctor Apgar. 
PICARD: Threats? I'm aware there was a private conversation between
them. 
KRAG: Apparently, it was much more than just a private conversation,
but he will have a chance to prove his innocence. 
PICARD: Investigator, in our system of jurisprudence, a man is innocent
until proved guilty. 
KRAG: In ours, he is guilty until he is proved innocent, and you are
under our jurisdiction. If I understand the Federation
regulations on these matters, and I just happened to look them up
before I 
PICARD: I am aware of Federation regulations, sir, and if you
investigate them further, you will find the captain decides if
extradition is warranted. 
KRAG: Are you saying it is not? 
PICARD: I'm saying, if there is sufficient cause to warrant a trial, I
will release my officer into your custody. 
KRAG: Would you say you're close to your First Officer, Captain? 
PICARD: That question is irrelevant here. 
KRAG: Really, Captain, you cannot believe that. How can I expect a fair
and impartial decision? 
PICARD: I must protect the rights of my officer. 
KRAG: I can appreciate that, but you will do it on the planet, not
here. After all, what if you were suddenly to decide to leave this star
system? 
PICARD: You have my word as a Starfleet officer that I will not. 
KRAG: Unacceptable. Captain, you will turn him over to me for
interrogation now. 
PICARD: Interrogate him here. 
KRAG: We must recreate, step by step, moment by moment, all the events
leading to the explosion. We will require access to all the witnesses,
as well as the data from the lab's ground computers. It would be
impossible to accomplish here. 
PICARD: Perhaps not. Mister Data, will you report to my Ready Room? 
DATA [OC]: Aye, sir. 
PICARD: We may be able to assist you in recreating the events. 
(Data enters) 
PICARD: Commander Data, this is Chief Investigator Krag. Commander, by
taking testimony from the away team and from witnesses provided by the
Investigator, would it be possible to programme the Holodeck to
recreate what happened on the science station? 
DATA: It would require construction and design specifications, full
orthographic representations of the Krieger equipment, as well as
visual representations and voice analyses of the persons involved. But
it is possible. 
KRAG: Very well. Arrangements will be made to provide you with all
available information. I shall return shortly with our witnesses. 
PICARD: Commander, will you escort Investigator Krag to Transporter
Room Three.

