RIKER O'BRIEN [OC] LAFORGE APGAR DATA [OC] TAYNA PICARD KRAG TROI MANUA WESLEY COMPUTER DATA
personal warrants upset idea dead worried indication alternative man

[Holodeck - Space Station Guest quarters]

(Riker and Manua are wrapped around each other in
passionate embrace. The doors open) 
APGAR: I knew I'd find the two of you together. Do you think I didn't
notice how you were looking at each other? I'm not the fool you take me
for. 
(Riker swings and misses, and Apgar floors Riker with three good
punches) 
APGAR: I'm going to report this, Riker. You can count on that. 
RIKER: You're a dead man, Apgar. A dead man. 
KRAG: Freeze programme. And then Doctor Apgar came to find you? 
TAYNA: Yes. 
KRAG: Run Tayna simulation four.

[Holodeck - Space Station Lab]

APGAR: I want you to take Manua and beam down to
Tanuga immediately. 
TAYNA: But Doctor, if he threatened you, you shouldn't stay 
APGAR: I'm not leaving him here alone. He's capable of anything. I've
got to protect our work. 
TAYNA: I'll contact the authorities. 
APGAR: No. I'll take care of that. 
TAYNA: Doctor, be careful. 
APGAR: It'll be all right. Go on. 
KRAG: Freeze programme. Then what happened? 
TAYNA: I left the station with Manua. The next day, when I heard the
station had exploded, I knew what had happened. He'd killed Doctor
Apgar. 
KRAG: Thank you. You are excused. 
(Tayna leaves) 
KRAG: Captain, I have established motive, method and opportunity. In
any court in the Federation, that is sufficient to warrant the
extradition of the accused. I await your decision forthwith.

[Ready room]

PICARD: I don't see any alternative, do you? 
TROI: We both know Will's innocent. 
PICARD: Of course he's innocent. But as a Starfleet Captain, I can't
allow myself the luxury of yielding to my personal feelings. The
evidence warrants a trial. I'll have to allow extradition. 
TROI: Do you think there's enough evidence to prove his innocence? 
PICARD: No. 
DATA [OC]: Captain, I believe we have found the source of the
radiation. Can you join us on the Bridge? 
PICARD: Acknowledged. 
[Bridge]

DATA: As you know, Captain, we are looking for a
phenomenon that reoccurs every five hours, twenty minutes and three
seconds. 
PICARD: The interval between radiation bursts. 
DATA: We have found one such phenomenon on the planet's surface. 
LAFORGE: It's the field generator that Apgar during in his research.
When it's fully charged, it automatically emits an energy pulse and
then takes five hours, twenty minutes and three seconds to recharge
itself. 
WESLEY: It must have been left on after the explosion of the lab. 
PICARD: But why would a generator be affecting the Enterprise this way?

DATA: It should not be. It is a harmless lambda field generator. 
LAFORGE: But we knew that somehow it was related to our radiation
bursts and then the pieces started just falling together. 
DATA: We now know what is causing the bursts, and why the science
station exploded, sir. 
WESLEY: And we also know who killed Doctor Apgar.

[Holodeck - Space Station Lab]

PICARD: Chief Inspector, we've watched the events
replayed over and over again and I am impressed, and admittedly
dismayed by the body of evidence against Commander Riker. But isn't it
remarkable that with all the witnesses, all the different points of
view of the events aboard the space station, we haven't seen what
really happened? 
KRAG: I do not understand. 
PICARD: Allow me, with the help of Mister La Forge, to explain.
Computer, load Manua programme one, time index fourteen four one. Play
programme. 
APGAR: Fine. Whatever. Starfleet will get its Krieger wave converter.
These things take time. I've had a few setbacks, that's all. 
PICARD: Freeze. Mrs. Apgar, this was from your deposition. It would
seem to suggest that your husband had failed to create Krieger waves. 
MANUA: Yes, but he was very close to a breakthrough. 
PICARD: He said he needed more time. He was upset by our early arrival.
But in fact I maintain he already had made that breakthrough and that
he was lying to us. 
KRAG: On what basis? 
LAFORGE: For the last several hours, the Enterprise has been
experiencing unusual radiation bursts. We've identified them as Krieger
waves. 
TAYNA: Krieger waves? But that's impossible. From where? 
LAFORGE: From right here. Inside the holodeck. 
PICARD: We recreated your science lab in every conceivable detail.
Essentially, what was in the original lab is here. 
LAFORGE: Including the Krieger wave converter that Doctor Apgar claimed
didn't work. Except it does work. 
PICARD: Your field generator on the planet surface has been sending out
harmless energy charges, which this facsimile has been converting into
Krieger waves. 
RIKER: But the holodeck can't create anything dangerous. 
LAFORGE: Well, it didn't. When you get down to basics, the converter is
nothing more than a complex series of mirrors and reflective coils. The
energy from the field generator down on the planet simply reflects off
of elements in the convertor which turns it into highly focused Krieger
waves. 
PICARD: And those same waves have been randomly striking different
areas of our ship as we orbit the planet and our angle to the generator
changes. 
KRAG: Why would Apgar lie about his success? 
PICARD: Computer, run Manua programme one, time code, fourteen three
eight.

[Holodeck - Space Station Living quarters]

APGAR: Manua, someday I'll be able reward you for
all your patience. I'll get you everything you ever dreamed of. 
MANUA: I have all the reward I need. 
PICARD: Freeze programme. Run Riker programme two, time code, sixteen
one zero. 
RIKER: To your success, doctor. 
MANUA: And the rewards that come with it.
PICARD: Freeze. 
MANUA: I never said that. 
PICARD: Nevertheless, it seems clear that your husband was motivated to
earn the kind of rewards that pleased you, Mrs. Apgar. 
MANUA: What's wrong with that? 
TROI: Well, he wouldn't have earned great profits from his dealings
with Starfleet. We were only interested in a new power source. 
LAFORGE: But if he could turn this into a weapon it would be worth a
lot to the Romulans, the Ferengi and a few others. Now Doctor Apgar had
been ordering extra dicosilium for months. That's a pretty good
indication that he was trying to create larger reflective coils. 
PICARD: And when the away team arrived early he must have been worried
that Starfleet was becoming suspicious. He needed more time to finish
his work. Apgar said that each of the three versions. No doubt, he was
afraid that Commander Riker might
learn the truth and cut off his support prematurely. Discovering
Commander Riker with his wife didn't help matters.
I submit that he decided to murder Commander Riker. 
MANUA: Ridiculous. 
PICARD: Is it? Computer, run Tayna programme four, time index eighteen
one four.

[Holodeck - Space Station Lab]

TAYNA: I'll contact the authorities. 
APGAR: No, I'll take care of that. 
PICARD: Freeze. 
(Apgar has sat down in front of a computer console) 
PICARD: Tayna, exactly is Apgar doing here? 
TAYNA: Activating the generator on the planet. 
PICARD: Why would he do that? 
TAYNA: Maybe he was going to work on the converter, I don't know. 
PICARD: Maybe he was already thinking ahead to his next confrontation
with Commander Riker. Computer, play Riker programme four, time index
twenty four one. 
APGAR: What are you going to put in your report, Riker? That there's no
justification for all the extra
dicosilium I've requested? That is why they sent you early, isn't it? 
RIKER: Doctor. 
APGAR: I can explain why I needed it. They have no idea what my
problems are. There are explanations for all of it. 
RIKER: I don't need explanations. 
PICARD: Freeze. To Apgar, this must have seemed as though Commander
Riker were confirming his worst fears. And I believe it was now that he
decided finally to kill him. 
KRAG: You forget, Picard, we know the energy pulse which blew up the
reactor originated from Commander Riker's position, not Doctor Apgar's.

LAFORGE: We are hypothesising that Doctor Apgar energised the converter
at the moment of Commander Riker's beam-out, hoping to make his death
look like a transporter accident. But something went wrong. The energy
pulse hit the transporter beam and reflected back to the reactor, which
caused the explosion. 
KRAG: An interesting hypothesis. But impossible to prove. 
LAFORGE: Not really. We know that the field generator on the planet has
been repeating a discharge ever since the explosion. The intervals are
like clockwork, except the explosion occurred point zero zero one four
seconds after the initial discharge. And the only explanation for that
variance is the time it would take the energy pulse to bounce back from
the transporter beam to the reactor. 
PICARD: We've arranged a demonstration to illustrate. Mister La Forge,
I think it's about time, isn't it? 
LAFORGE: Computer, load programme, La Forge one. Coordinate auto-engage
time sequence. The next discharge from the field generator is scheduled
to occur in just a few moments, and we've aligned the holodeck
programme to recreate the final events as Commander Riker described
them. Only this time our facsimile will automatically process the
energy charge from the planet and reflect it just as the original
convertor did before the explosion. 
PICARD: If we're correct, we'll know it instantly. 
COMPUTER: Auto-engage time sequence synchronised. 
APGAR: Then we have nothing further to say to each other. 
RIKER: I'll tell my Captain to expect your grievance. 
APGAR: Do that. 
RIKER: Riker to Enterprise. I'm ready to leave, now. 
O'BRIEN [OC]: Stand by, Commander. Engaging transport. 
(The top of the converter lights up. A beam goes out to Riker and
bounces back to the middle of the machine. There's one small explosion,
then a bigger one. The programme is terminated and we are in a bare) 
