RIKER LAFORGE APGAR MANUA TAYNA PICARD KRAG TROI WORF WESLEY COMPUTER RIKER [OC] DATA O'BRIEN [OC] APGAR [OC]
recess door thousand bay comfortable field charm believe odd

[Holodeck - Space Station Guest quarters]

MANUA: Our guest quarters aren't luxurious but I've
tried to make this room warm and inviting. 
RIKER: I'll be very comfortable, thank you. Good night. 
MANUA: The environmental controls are over here. 
RIKER: I'm sure I'll find everything I need. 
MANUA: And the door shuts by touching this panel. 
(door closes) 
RIKER: Mrs. Apgar. 
MANUA: This is my sanctuary. Privacy is very important on a small
station. I'm left alone here. Often for hours. 
RIKER: It's late. I am tired. 
(She slips her dress off her shoulders) 
MANUA: Are you still tired, Commander? 
RIKER: Ma'am, excuse me. I really think that you ought to leave. 
(Apgar enters) 
APGAR: I knew I'd find you with him. Did you think I didn't notice how
you looked at him? I'm not the fool you take me for. 
RIKER: Doctor. 
(Apgar slaps Manua, then takes a swing at Riker, who sways out of the
way. Apgar falls against the bed) 
RIKER: Doctor, believe me. This has been a terrible mistake. 
APGAR: You won't get away with this. I'll see to it. I swear I will,
Riker. 
(Apgar and Manua leave) 
PICARD: Freeze programme. 
RIKER: I didn't see Doctor Apgar until the following morning when he
asked to see me alone. Commander La Forge returned to the Enterprise.
Resume programme.

[Holodeck - Space Station Lab]

APGAR: I suppose if I make a formal complaint, your
report on my work won't be very good. 
RIKER: Doctor, this is going to have no impact on my report. It was a
misunderstanding of the worst kind. We could straighten the entire
thing out if you would ask Mrs. Apgar to join us. 
APGAR: My wife and my assistant have transported down to the planet.
What are you going to put in your report, Riker? That there is no
justification for all the extra dicosilium I've requested? That is why
they sent you early, isn't it? 
RIKER: Doctor, I 
APGAR: I can explain why I needed it. They have no idea what my
problems are. There are explanations for all of it. 
RIKER: I don't need explanations. 
APGAR: Then we have nothing further to say to each other. 
RIKER: I'll tell my Captain to expect your grievance. 
APGAR: Do that. 
RIKER: Riker to Enterprise. I'm ready to leave. Now. 
O'BRIEN [OC]: Stand by, Commander. Engaging transport. 
RIKER: Freeze programme. Then I returned to the Enterprise. 
KRAG: And you have nothing further to add, Commander? Nothing about
firing a phaser? 
RIKER: I never fired a phaser on the science station. 
KRAG: That's odd. Very odd. Captain Picard, is it not true that your
sensors detected an energy drain just as Commander Riker began
transport? 
PICARD: That's correct. 
KRAG: Have you been able to explain it? 
PICARD: Not to my knowledge. 
KRAG: We have. Our readings are quite clear about it. Information
retrieved from the lab's ground computers indicate that a focused
energy pulse was fired just as Commander Riker began transport.
Furthermore, by analysing the angle and trajectory, we have determined
that it came from the very spot Commander Riker was standing. So then,
will you allow me to show you
my recreation of the end of this story? A speculation, if you will.
Computer, run hypothetical Krag one. 
(Riker is repositioned then walks forward to his beam out point again) 
RIKER: Riker to Enterprise. I'm ready to leave. Now. 
O'BRIEN [OC]: Stand by, Commander. Engaging transport. 
(And the holo-Riker draws and fires a phaser at the Krieger Wave
converter) 
KRAG: Freeze programme. Three seconds later, the station exploded.

[Bridge]

LAFORGE: The Tanugans are right. Something was
fired at the reactor core just before transport. 
DATA: The energy signature would seem to indicate a phaser-like blast. 
WESLEY: Well, it wasn't the commander's phaser. It couldn't have been.
There's another answer. We're just not seeing it. 
DATA: Was there anything else in the lab capable of creating this kind
of energy discharge? 
LAFORGE: Not that I saw. Besides, how do you account for the fact that
it came from Commander's Riker's exact position. Damn it, I should have
stayed with him. 
WORF: Commander, sensors indicate a radiation burst on deck thirty
nine, outside cargo bay twelve. 
DATA: Source? 
WORF: Unknown, sir. 
DATA: Computer, identify type of radiation. 
COMPUTER: Emission is not consistent with any known radiation. 
WORF: It is subsiding, sir.

[Corridor]

(Wesley is scanning a blister and hole in the
bulkhead) 
WESLEY: What kind of radiation could do this? Make any sense to you? 
LAFORGE: I don't recognise it. Not even the main deflector puts out
that kind of spillage. 
WESLEY: Where would it be coming from? 
LAFORGE: I don't know, Wes, but whatever it is, it's capable of putting
a hole in solid duranium.

[Holodeck - Space Station Lab]

(Krag enters with Manua, in demure neck to ankle
dress) 
KRAG: In a sense we have already met Mrs. Apgar, so we shall dispense
with introductions. 
PICARD: Mrs. Apgar, you understand the purpose of this hearing? 
TROI: We understand how difficult this will be for you. If you need a
recess, please, don't hesitate to ask. 
PICARD: Would you like to make a statement before we begin? 
MANUA: No. I just know he did it. He killed my husband. 
KRAG: Computer, load Manua simulation one. 
[Holodeck - Space Station Living quarters]

KRAG: Run programme. 
MANUA: If you greet them with such a long face they're going to assume
something is wrong with the experiment. 
APGAR: I just need time. A little more time. 
MANUA: I'm certain they'll give you the time you need if you just show
a little charm. 
APGAR: You do that so much better than I do. (they kiss) Manua, someday
I'll be able to reward you for all your patience. I'll get you
everything you ever dreamed of. 
MANUA: I have all the reward I need. Now go on, I'll be right in. 
(Apgar leaves)
RIKER [OC]: Doctor Apgar? 
[Holodeck - Space Station Lab]

RIKER: I'm Commander William Riker. Lieutenant
Commander Geordi La Forge. 
APGAR [OC]: My assistant, Tayna. Well, let's get on with it, shall we? 
MANUA: Don't be in such a hurry, dear. Perhaps our guests would like
some refreshment? 
APGAR: My wife, Manua. 
RIKER: It's a pleasure to meet you, Manua. 
APGAR: I'm anxious to get started. 
RIKER: If you wish. 
APGAR: I must say I resent your early arrival, Commander I have much
work to do. 
RIKER: Doctor, I'll do everything in my power to make this as painless
as possible for both of us. Do you assist your husband in his work? 
MANUA: Oh, dear, no. I'm no scientist. 
RIKER: No, neither am I. 
MANUA: But I find this all fascinating, don't you? 
RIKER: Mister La Forge, why don't you take a look at the doctor's
experimental data. Later, you can give me an overview. 
APGAR: Fine. Whatever. Starfleet will get its Krieger wave converter.
These things take time. I've had a few setbacks, that's all. 
RIKER: Doctor, I'm not trying to put any pressure on you. I'm sure my
report will only underscore the need for continued
support of your research. 
APGAR: Tayna, I'll call up the records. Show the Commander's assistant
whatever he wants to see. 
TAYNA: Yes, Doctor. If you'll come with me? Our field generator is on
the planet, since it requires a minimum of five thousand
kilometres for the field to collimate. 
MANUA: Darling, let Tayna take care of that. I'm sure Commander Riker
wants to hear how close you are to a breakthrough. I'll pour the two of
you a drink and you can talk all about Krieger waves. 
