RIKER LAFORGE APGAR MANUA TAYNA PICARD KRAG TROI WESLEY DATA [OC] WORF [OC] CRUSHER DATA
la support leaving zero allow bit mistake inspector areas

[Holodeck - Space Station Living quarters ]

MANUA: (handing out the drinks) Commander. 
APGAR: To success. 
RIKER: Success. 
APGAR: Well, in a way, I suppose it's good that you're early. Manua's
right, it gives me a chance to show you the progress we've been making.

RIKER: I'd appreciate it if Commander La Forge and I could stay here
until the Enterprise returns. 
(Riker is continually staring at Manua) 
MANUA: It's a little inconvenient. 
RIKER: It would help to accelerate the process. 
APGAR: Well, if you wish, Commander. Now, where shall I start? Well,
first of all, you should know that I am very close to being able to
collimate a Krieger field.

[Holodeck - Space Station Guest quarters]

MANUA: Our guest quarters are very modest. 
RIKER: Very charming. It has your touch. 
MANUA: The station is small, and we don't often have guests. I use this
as my sanctuary. 
RIKER: Who do you need sanctuary from? 
MANUA: The environmental controls are here. 
(Riker closes the doors) 
MANUA: Commander, please. It's late and I'm tired. 
RIKER: A man more interested in Krieger waves than in a lovely woman
like you. How is that possible? 
MANUA: My husband is one of the great minds in the galaxy and we love
each other very much. 
(Riker pulls her towards him) 
MANUA: Please don't. 
RIKER: It must be very lonely. A princess in a very high tower. 
MANUA: Please, my husband will be looking for me. 
RIKER: Your sanctuary, remember? 
(Riker slips her dress off her shoulders) 
MANUA: Commander, don't, please! 
RIKER: (the real one) She's lying! That never happened. 
PICARD: Freeze programme. 
MANUA: Please. 
(Programme stops) 
RIKER: Captain, you know I would never act like that. 
PICARD: Commander Riker! 
RIKER: This isn't me. I wasn't the one who closed the door. I didn't
proposition her and I certainly didn't try to rape her. Why are you
doing this? 
MANUA: (real one) It's exactly what happened. 
TROI: Will, come on, sit down. 
KRAG: Resume programme. 
MANUA: Please. 
(Apgar enters) 
APGAR: I knew you'd try this, Riker. Do you think I didn't notice how
you looked at her? I'm not the fool you take me for. 
(Apgar takes a swing at him, gets blocked and is given two punches to
the stomach in return) 
APGAR: You won't get away with this. Your career is over. I'll see to
it. I swear I will, Riker. 
RIKER: If you report this, you'll be making a terrible mistake, Doctor.
A terrible mistake. 
(Apgar and Manua leave) 
KRAG: Freeze programme. 
MANUA: Your career was safe. He was a scientist. In another day some
fascinating bit of technical trivia would have distracted him. He would
have forgotten about you and his complaint to Starfleet. Excuse me. 
(Manua leaves the holodeck) 
PICARD: We'll, um, we'll take a short recess. 
(Picard and Krag leave) 
RIKER: Why would she lie like that? She was lying. You could tell. 
TROI: Will, I didn't sense any deception from her. 
RIKER: Then you think that I? 
TROI: No! No, of course not. I know you. You don't have to convince me
of anything. 
RIKER: We can't both be telling the truth. 
TROI: It is the truth as each of you remembers it. 
RIKER: But her version puts a noose around my neck.

[Sickbay]

CRUSHER: This is healing beautifully. I think you
can work on strengthening these muscles again. 
WORF [OC]: Security to Doctor Crusher. Evacuate. Repeat, evacuate.
Radiation emissions are indicated in Sickbay. 
(As Beverly and her patient leave, a hole is burnt in the bulkhead
under a desk. Later, the damage is being examined) 
DATA: It is definitely the same radiation that penetrated deck thirty
nine. Highly focused, very powerful but of unknown origin. 
LAFORGE: If this should happen in the engine core or the anti-matter
containment tanks, we'll be in big trouble, Captain. 
PICARD: Do you have any theories? 
WESLEY: Captain, Data's noticed something that's too strange to be a
coincidence. 
DATA: The two radiation events aboard the Enterprise occurred five
hours, twenty minutes and three seconds apart. The science station
exploded yesterday at almost four times that interval. 
WESLEY: There's a point zero zero one four second variance we haven't
been able to explain yet. 
RIKER: So you're saying there's a connection between the radiation
bursts and the explosion? 
DATA: We do not have the evidence to support that conclusion at this
time, Commander. 
CRUSHER: If they're right, we should be able to predict the next event.

LAFORGE: We're expecting it in just over five hours. 
PICARD: Take every precaution to protect the ship's vital areas. If we
haven't identified the source before the time interval, we'll leave
orbit. If you perceive any further danger, advise me immediately. 
(Picard leaves)
WESLEY: We'll figure it out for you, Commander.

[Holodeck]

TAYNA: After the fight, Doctor Apgar came to find
me he was very upset. 
KRAG: And he told you what happened? 
TAYNA: Yes, he told me everything that happened. 
KRAG: Based on Tayna's deposition, we have recreated the incident in
Commander Riker's quarters as Doctor Apgar described it to her.
Computer. 
PICARD: Inspector, Inspector, this is hearsay. She wasn't a witness to
this incident. 
KRAG: But Doctor Apgar is dead. Her statement is admissible according
Tanugan law and I insist you consider it. 
PICARD: Well, we'll watch this evidence, and we'll weigh it
accordingly. 
KRAG: Computer, run Tayna simulation three.

[Holodeck - Space Station Guest quarters]

(Riker and Manua are wrapped around each other in
passionate embrace. The doors open) 
APGAR: I knew I'd find the two of you together. Do you think I didn't
notice how you were looking at each other? I'm not the fool you take me
for. 
(Riker swings and misses, and Apgar floors Riker with three good
punches) 
APGAR: I'm going to report this, Riker. You can count on that. 
RIKER: You're a dead man, Apgar. A dead man. 
KRAG: Freeze programme. And then Doctor Apgar came to find you? 
TAYNA: Yes. 
KRAG: Run Tayna simulation four.

[Holodeck - Space Station Lab]

APGAR: I want you to take Manua and beam down to
Tanuga immediately. 
TAYNA: But Doctor, if he threatened you, you shouldn't stay 
APGAR: I'm not leaving him here alone. He's capable of anything. I've
got to protect our work. 
TAYNA: I'll contact the authorities. 
APGAR: No. I'll take care of that. 
TAYNA: Doctor, be careful. 
APGAR: It'll be all right. Go on. 
KRAG: Freeze programme. Then what happened? 
TAYNA: I left the station with Manua. The next day, when I heard the
station had exploded, I knew what had happened. He'd killed Doctor
Apgar. 
KRAG: Thank you. You are excused. 
(Tayna leaves) 
KRAG: Captain, I have established motive, method and opportunity. In
any court in the Federation, that is sufficient to warrant the
extradition of the accused. I await your decision forthwith.

[Ready room]

PICARD: I don't see any alternative, do you? 
TROI: We both know Will's innocent. 
PICARD: Of course he's innocent. But as a Starfleet Captain, I can't
allow myself the luxury of yielding to my personal feelings. The
evidence warrants a trial. I'll have to allow extradition. 
TROI: Do you think there's enough evidence to prove his innocence? 
PICARD: No. 
DATA [OC]: Captain, I believe we have found the source of the
radiation. Can you join us on the Bridge? 
PICARD: Acknowledged. 
