RIKER O'BRIEN [OC] LAFORGE APGAR DATA [OC] TAYNA PICARD KRAG WORF MANUA WESLEY COMPUTER DATA
repositioned door complete success grievance type waves representations odd

[Ready room]

PICARD: Just what is the evidence against my
officer? 
KRAG: Two witnesses have come forward to describe Commander Riker's
threats against Doctor Apgar. 
PICARD: Threats? I'm aware there was a private conversation between
them. 
KRAG: Apparently, it was much more than just a private conversation,
but he will have a chance to prove his innocence. 
PICARD: Investigator, in our system of jurisprudence, a man is innocent
until proved guilty. 
KRAG: In ours, he is guilty until he is proved innocent, and you are
under our jurisdiction. If I understand the Federation
regulations on these matters, and I just happened to look them up
before I 
PICARD: I am aware of Federation regulations, sir, and if you
investigate them further, you will find the captain decides if
extradition is warranted. 
KRAG: Are you saying it is not? 
PICARD: I'm saying, if there is sufficient cause to warrant a trial, I
will release my officer into your custody. 
KRAG: Would you say you're close to your First Officer, Captain? 
PICARD: That question is irrelevant here. 
KRAG: Really, Captain, you cannot believe that. How can I expect a fair
and impartial decision? 
PICARD: I must protect the rights of my officer. 
KRAG: I can appreciate that, but you will do it on the planet, not
here. After all, what if you were suddenly to decide to leave this star
system? 
PICARD: You have my word as a Starfleet officer that I will not. 
KRAG: Unacceptable. Captain, you will turn him over to me for
interrogation now. 
PICARD: Interrogate him here. 
KRAG: We must recreate, step by step, moment by moment, all the events
leading to the explosion. We will require access to all the witnesses,
as well as the data from the lab's ground computers. It would be
impossible to accomplish here. 
PICARD: Perhaps not. Mister Data, will you report to my Ready Room? 
DATA [OC]: Aye, sir. 
PICARD: We may be able to assist you in recreating the events. 
(Data enters) 
PICARD: Commander Data, this is Chief Investigator Krag. Commander, by
taking testimony from the away team and from witnesses provided by the
Investigator, would it be possible to programme the Holodeck to
recreate what happened on the science station? 
DATA: It would require construction and design specifications, full
orthographic representations of the Krieger equipment, as well as
visual representations and voice analyses of the persons involved. But
it is possible. 
KRAG: Very well. Arrangements will be made to provide you with all
available information. I shall return shortly with our witnesses. 
PICARD: Commander, will you escort Investigator Krag to Transporter
Room Three.

[Bridge]

PICARD: Ensign Crusher, Mister La Forge, we are
going to recreate the research station here on the holodeck. I want you
to work with Commander Data on the preparations. In addition, Commander
La Forge and Commander Riker, I want you to give the computer detailed
depositions of everything you saw, everything you heard while you were
on board. Counsellor, I want you to assist me during this inquiry. My
decision about the extradition will be based upon the evidence
presented during these recreations. 
RIKER: Captain, may I have a word with you? 
PICARD: Under these circumstances, Number One, I think that would be
inappropriate.

Second officer's log, Stardate 43611.6. Programming
of the holodeck has taken eighteen hours eleven minutes, and is now
complete. All participants have entered their depositions. Technical
schematics and complete records from the lab's ground computers, as
well as Doctor Apgar's personal logs, have been included. The
recreations will have a nominal eight point seven percent margin of
error.

[Holodeck - Space Station Lab]

(There is a curved table with chairs for Picard,
Troi, Riker and Krag to sit at and watch the evidence) 
PICARD: Is there anything you'd like to say before we begin, Number
One? 
RIKER: Just this. I'm not a murderer. I went to the Tanugan lab as an
official representative of Starfleet. I acted
accordingly. I was there to evaluate Doctor Apgar's progress in the
development of a Krieger Wave converter. That's all I was interested
in. Computer. Load deposition programme Riker one. Run the simulation. 
(Holographic Riker and La Forge beam in) 
RIKER: Doctor Apgar, I'm Commander William Riker. Lieutenant Commander
Geordi La Forge. 
APGAR: My assistant, Tayna. Well, let's get on with it, shall we? 
MANUA: Don't be in such a hurry, dear. Perhaps our guests would care
for some refreshments. 
APGAR: My wife, Manua. 
RIKER: A pleasure to meet you, Mrs. Apgar. If you're prepared to get
started, so are we. 
APGAR: Of course I'm prepared. 
RIKER: All right, why don't you give me the overview of your research
while Mister La Forge and your assistant take a look at the
experimental data. 
APGAR: Fine, whatever. I must say, Commander, I resent this early
arrival. Starfleet will get its converter. I've had a few setbacks,
that's all. 
RIKER: We're not here to pressure you, Doctor. We just want an update
on your progress. 
APGAR: Tayna, show the Commander's assistant whatever he wants to see.
Give him full access to our records. 
TAYNA: Yes, Doctor. If you'll come with me. Our lambda field generator
is on the planet since it requires a minimum of five thousand
kilometres for the field to collimate. 
(Tayna and Geordi move to the back of the set. Manua has been gazing at
Riker all the time) 
MANUA: Really, darling, you're being rude. After all, Commander Riker
is willing to sit through all your prattle about Krieger Waves. Let's
have a drink, Commander, and we'll hear all about Krieger Waves. 
(Manua takes Riker's arm and leads him away. Apgar follows, arms
crossed)

[Holodeck - Space Station Living quarters]

(Drinks are served in tall glasses -
champagne-style) 
RIKER: To your success, Doctor. 
MANUA: And the rewards that come with it. 
APGAR: Riker, what is Starfleet doing here anyway? My delivery wasn't
scheduled for another three months. 
RIKER: We were in this sector on another mission, and since you had
already contacted Starfleet about additional dicosilium, it seemed like
a good opportunity. 
MANUA: How interesting. Tell us about this other mission. 
RIKER: It's just a study of a proto-star cloud. The Enterprise'll be
back tomorrow. 
APGAR: The Enterprise just left you here? 
RIKER: We didn't want to inconvenience you. We've made arrangements for
quarters on the planet. 
MANUA: I won't hear of such a thing. Commander, I insist you and Mister
La Forge stay with us. 
APGAR: I hardly 
MANUA: I know that you would prefer to be alone with your very
important work but I, for one, am glad for the company. 
(Apgar leaves) 
MANUA: Good. I must apologise for my husband's lack of social graces.
He may be one of the great scientific minds in the galaxy, but he does
come up a bit short in other areas. 
KRAG: Wait a moment. Stop. 
PICARD: Computer, freeze programme. 
KRAG: Then it's your testimony that it was Mrs. Apgar's idea for you to
spend the night aboard the space station. 
RIKER: It's my testimony and it's the truth. 
PICARD: Resume programme.

[Holodeck - Space Station Guest quarters]

MANUA: Our guest quarters aren't luxurious but I've
tried to make this room warm and inviting. 
RIKER: I'll be very comfortable, thank you. Good night. 
MANUA: The environmental controls are over here. 
RIKER: I'm sure I'll find everything I need. 
MANUA: And the door shuts by touching this panel. 
(door closes) 
RIKER: Mrs. Apgar. 
MANUA: This is my sanctuary. Privacy is very important on a small
station. I'm left alone here. Often for hours. 
RIKER: It's late. I am tired. 
(She slips her dress off her shoulders) 
MANUA: Are you still tired, Commander? 
RIKER: Ma'am, excuse me. I really think that you ought to leave. 
(Apgar enters) 
APGAR: I knew I'd find you with him. Did you think I didn't notice how
you looked at him? I'm not the fool you take me for. 
RIKER: Doctor. 
(Apgar slaps Manua, then takes a swing at Riker, who sways out of the
way. Apgar falls against the bed) 
RIKER: Doctor, believe me. This has been a terrible mistake. 
APGAR: You won't get away with this. I'll see to it. I swear I will,
Riker. 
(Apgar and Manua leave) 
PICARD: Freeze programme. 
RIKER: I didn't see Doctor Apgar until the following morning when he
asked to see me alone. Commander La Forge returned to the Enterprise.
Resume programme.

[Holodeck - Space Station Lab]

APGAR: I suppose if I make a formal complaint, your
report on my work won't be very good. 
RIKER: Doctor, this is going to have no impact on my report. It was a
misunderstanding of the worst kind. We could straighten the entire
thing out if you would ask Mrs. Apgar to join us. 
APGAR: My wife and my assistant have transported down to the planet.
What are you going to put in your report, Riker? That there is no
justification for all the extra dicosilium I've requested? That is why
they sent you early, isn't it? 
RIKER: Doctor, I 
APGAR: I can explain why I needed it. They have no idea what my
problems are. There are explanations for all of it. 
RIKER: I don't need explanations. 
APGAR: Then we have nothing further to say to each other. 
RIKER: I'll tell my Captain to expect your grievance. 
APGAR: Do that. 
RIKER: Riker to Enterprise. I'm ready to leave. Now. 
O'BRIEN [OC]: Stand by, Commander. Engaging transport. 
RIKER: Freeze programme. Then I returned to the Enterprise. 
KRAG: And you have nothing further to add, Commander? Nothing about
firing a phaser? 
RIKER: I never fired a phaser on the science station. 
KRAG: That's odd. Very odd. Captain Picard, is it not true that your
sensors detected an energy drain just as Commander Riker began
transport? 
PICARD: That's correct. 
KRAG: Have you been able to explain it? 
PICARD: Not to my knowledge. 
KRAG: We have. Our readings are quite clear about it. Information
retrieved from the lab's ground computers indicate that a focused
energy pulse was fired just as Commander Riker began transport.
Furthermore, by analysing the angle and trajectory, we have determined
that it came from the very spot Commander Riker was standing. So then,
will you allow me to show you
my recreation of the end of this story? A speculation, if you will.
Computer, run hypothetical Krag one. 
(Riker is repositioned then walks forward to his beam out point again) 
RIKER: Riker to Enterprise. I'm ready to leave. Now. 
O'BRIEN [OC]: Stand by, Commander. Engaging transport. 
(And the holo-Riker draws and fires a phaser at the Krieger Wave
converter) 
KRAG: Freeze programme. Three seconds later, the station exploded.

[Bridge]

LAFORGE: The Tanugans are right. Something was
fired at the reactor core just before transport. 
DATA: The energy signature would seem to indicate a phaser-like blast. 
WESLEY: Well, it wasn't the commander's phaser. It couldn't have been.
There's another answer. We're just not seeing it. 
DATA: Was there anything else in the lab capable of creating this kind
of energy discharge? 
LAFORGE: Not that I saw. Besides, how do you account for the fact that
it came from Commander's Riker's exact position. Damn it, I should have
stayed with him. 
WORF: Commander, sensors indicate a radiation burst on deck thirty
nine, outside cargo bay twelve. 
DATA: Source? 
WORF: Unknown, sir. 
DATA: Computer, identify type of radiation. 
COMPUTER: Emission is not consistent with any known radiation. 
WORF: It is subsiding, sir.

