RIKER LAFORGE APGAR DATA [OC] TAYNA WORF [OC] KRAG TROI MANUA WESLEY PICARD CRUSHER DATA
damage evacuate beam zero floors statement innocence automatically man

[Sickbay]

CRUSHER: This is healing beautifully. I think you
can work on strengthening these muscles again. 
WORF [OC]: Security to Doctor Crusher. Evacuate. Repeat, evacuate.
Radiation emissions are indicated in Sickbay. 
(As Beverly and her patient leave, a hole is burnt in the bulkhead
under a desk. Later, the damage is being examined) 
DATA: It is definitely the same radiation that penetrated deck thirty
nine. Highly focused, very powerful but of unknown origin. 
LAFORGE: If this should happen in the engine core or the anti-matter
containment tanks, we'll be in big trouble, Captain. 
PICARD: Do you have any theories? 
WESLEY: Captain, Data's noticed something that's too strange to be a
coincidence. 
DATA: The two radiation events aboard the Enterprise occurred five
hours, twenty minutes and three seconds apart. The science station
exploded yesterday at almost four times that interval. 
WESLEY: There's a point zero zero one four second variance we haven't
been able to explain yet. 
RIKER: So you're saying there's a connection between the radiation
bursts and the explosion? 
DATA: We do not have the evidence to support that conclusion at this
time, Commander. 
CRUSHER: If they're right, we should be able to predict the next event.

LAFORGE: We're expecting it in just over five hours. 
PICARD: Take every precaution to protect the ship's vital areas. If we
haven't identified the source before the time interval, we'll leave
orbit. If you perceive any further danger, advise me immediately. 
(Picard leaves)
WESLEY: We'll figure it out for you, Commander.

[Holodeck]

TAYNA: After the fight, Doctor Apgar came to find
me he was very upset. 
KRAG: And he told you what happened? 
TAYNA: Yes, he told me everything that happened. 
KRAG: Based on Tayna's deposition, we have recreated the incident in
Commander Riker's quarters as Doctor Apgar described it to her.
Computer. 
PICARD: Inspector, Inspector, this is hearsay. She wasn't a witness to
this incident. 
KRAG: But Doctor Apgar is dead. Her statement is admissible according
Tanugan law and I insist you consider it. 
PICARD: Well, we'll watch this evidence, and we'll weigh it
accordingly. 
KRAG: Computer, run Tayna simulation three.

[Holodeck - Space Station Guest quarters]

(Riker and Manua are wrapped around each other in
passionate embrace. The doors open) 
APGAR: I knew I'd find the two of you together. Do you think I didn't
notice how you were looking at each other? I'm not the fool you take me
for. 
(Riker swings and misses, and Apgar floors Riker with three good
punches) 
APGAR: I'm going to report this, Riker. You can count on that. 
RIKER: You're a dead man, Apgar. A dead man. 
KRAG: Freeze programme. And then Doctor Apgar came to find you? 
TAYNA: Yes. 
KRAG: Run Tayna simulation four.

[Holodeck - Space Station Lab]

APGAR: I want you to take Manua and beam down to
Tanuga immediately. 
TAYNA: But Doctor, if he threatened you, you shouldn't stay 
APGAR: I'm not leaving him here alone. He's capable of anything. I've
got to protect our work. 
TAYNA: I'll contact the authorities. 
APGAR: No. I'll take care of that. 
TAYNA: Doctor, be careful. 
APGAR: It'll be all right. Go on. 
KRAG: Freeze programme. Then what happened? 
TAYNA: I left the station with Manua. The next day, when I heard the
station had exploded, I knew what had happened. He'd killed Doctor
Apgar. 
KRAG: Thank you. You are excused. 
(Tayna leaves) 
KRAG: Captain, I have established motive, method and opportunity. In
any court in the Federation, that is sufficient to warrant the
extradition of the accused. I await your decision forthwith.

[Ready room]

PICARD: I don't see any alternative, do you? 
TROI: We both know Will's innocent. 
PICARD: Of course he's innocent. But as a Starfleet Captain, I can't
allow myself the luxury of yielding to my personal feelings. The
evidence warrants a trial. I'll have to allow extradition. 
TROI: Do you think there's enough evidence to prove his innocence? 
PICARD: No. 
DATA [OC]: Captain, I believe we have found the source of the
radiation. Can you join us on the Bridge? 
PICARD: Acknowledged. 
[Bridge]

DATA: As you know, Captain, we are looking for a
phenomenon that reoccurs every five hours, twenty minutes and three
seconds. 
PICARD: The interval between radiation bursts. 
DATA: We have found one such phenomenon on the planet's surface. 
LAFORGE: It's the field generator that Apgar during in his research.
When it's fully charged, it automatically emits an energy pulse and
then takes five hours, twenty minutes and three seconds to recharge
itself. 
WESLEY: It must have been left on after the explosion of the lab. 
PICARD: But why would a generator be affecting the Enterprise this way?

DATA: It should not be. It is a harmless lambda field generator. 
LAFORGE: But we knew that somehow it was related to our radiation
bursts and then the pieces started just falling together. 
DATA: We now know what is causing the bursts, and why the science
station exploded, sir. 
WESLEY: And we also know who killed Doctor Apgar.

[Holodeck - Space Station Lab]

PICARD: Chief Inspector, we've watched the events
replayed over and over again and I am impressed, and admittedly
dismayed by the body of evidence against Commander Riker. But isn't it
remarkable that with all the witnesses, all the different points of
view of the events aboard the space station, we haven't seen what
really happened? 
KRAG: I do not understand. 
PICARD: Allow me, with the help of Mister La Forge, to explain.
Computer, load Manua programme one, time index fourteen four one. Play
programme. 
APGAR: Fine. Whatever. Starfleet will get its Krieger wave converter.
These things take time. I've had a few setbacks, that's all. 
PICARD: Freeze. Mrs. Apgar, this was from your deposition. It would
seem to suggest that your husband had failed to create Krieger waves. 
MANUA: Yes, but he was very close to a breakthrough. 
PICARD: He said he needed more time. He was upset by our early arrival.
But in fact I maintain he already had made that breakthrough and that
he was lying to us. 
KRAG: On what basis? 
LAFORGE: For the last several hours, the Enterprise has been
experiencing unusual radiation bursts. We've identified them as Krieger
waves. 
TAYNA: Krieger waves? But that's impossible. From where? 
LAFORGE: From right here. Inside the holodeck. 
PICARD: We recreated your science lab in every conceivable detail.
Essentially, what was in the original lab is here. 
LAFORGE: Including the Krieger wave converter that Doctor Apgar claimed
didn't work. Except it does work. 
PICARD: Your field generator on the planet surface has been sending out
harmless energy charges, which this facsimile has been converting into
Krieger waves. 
RIKER: But the holodeck can't create anything dangerous. 
LAFORGE: Well, it didn't. When you get down to basics, the converter is
nothing more than a complex series of mirrors and reflective coils. The
energy from the field generator down on the planet simply reflects off
of elements in the convertor which turns it into highly focused Krieger
waves. 
PICARD: And those same waves have been randomly striking different
areas of our ship as we orbit the planet and our angle to the generator
changes. 
KRAG: Why would Apgar lie about his success? 
PICARD: Computer, run Manua programme one, time code, fourteen three
eight.

