RIKER LAFORGE APGAR MANUA TAYNA PICARD KRAG TROI WESLEY DATA

[Holodeck]

TAYNA: After the fight, Doctor Apgar came to find
me he was very upset. 
KRAG: And he told you what happened? 
TAYNA: Yes, he told me everything that happened. 
KRAG: Based on Tayna's deposition, we have recreated the incident in
Commander Riker's quarters as Doctor Apgar described it to her.
Computer. 
PICARD: Inspector, Inspector, this is hearsay. She wasn't a witness to
this incident. 
KRAG: But Doctor Apgar is dead. Her statement is admissible according
Tanugan law and I insist you consider it. 
PICARD: Well, we'll watch this evidence, and we'll weigh it
accordingly. 
KRAG: Computer, run Tayna simulation three.

[Holodeck - Space Station Guest quarters]

(Riker and Manua are wrapped around each other in
passionate embrace. The doors open) 
APGAR: I knew I'd find the two of you together. Do you think I didn't
notice how you were looking at each other? I'm not the fool you take me
for. 
(Riker swings and misses, and Apgar floors Riker with three good
punches) 
APGAR: I'm going to report this, Riker. You can count on that. 
RIKER: You're a dead man, Apgar. A dead man. 
KRAG: Freeze programme. And then Doctor Apgar came to find you? 
TAYNA: Yes. 
KRAG: Run Tayna simulation four.

[Holodeck - Space Station Lab]

APGAR: I want you to take Manua and beam down to
Tanuga immediately. 
TAYNA: But Doctor, if he threatened you, you shouldn't stay 
APGAR: I'm not leaving him here alone. He's capable of anything. I've
got to protect our work. 
TAYNA: I'll contact the authorities. 
APGAR: No. I'll take care of that. 
TAYNA: Doctor, be careful. 
APGAR: It'll be all right. Go on. 
KRAG: Freeze programme. Then what happened? 
TAYNA: I left the station with Manua. The next day, when I heard the
station had exploded, I knew what had happened. He'd killed Doctor
Apgar. 
KRAG: Thank you. You are excused. 
(Tayna leaves) 
KRAG: Captain, I have established motive, method and opportunity. In
any court in the Federation, that is sufficient to warrant the
extradition of the accused. I await your decision forthwith.

[Ready room]

PICARD: I don't see any alternative, do you? 
TROI: We both know Will's innocent. 
PICARD: Of course he's innocent. But as a Starfleet Captain, I can't
allow myself the luxury of yielding to my personal feelings. The
evidence warrants a trial. I'll have to allow extradition. 
TROI: Do you think there's enough evidence to prove his innocence? 
PICARD: No. 
DATA [OC]: Captain, I believe we have found the source of the
radiation. Can you join us on the Bridge? 
PICARD: Acknowledged. 
[Bridge]

DATA: As you know, Captain, we are looking for a
phenomenon that reoccurs every five hours, twenty minutes and three
seconds. 
PICARD: The interval between radiation bursts. 
DATA: We have found one such phenomenon on the planet's surface. 
LAFORGE: It's the field generator that Apgar during in his research.
When it's fully charged, it automatically emits an energy pulse and
then takes five hours, twenty minutes and three seconds to recharge
itself. 
WESLEY: It must have been left on after the explosion of the lab. 
PICARD: But why would a generator be affecting the Enterprise this way?

DATA: It should not be. It is a harmless lambda field generator. 
LAFORGE: But we knew that somehow it was related to our radiation
bursts and then the pieces started just falling together. 
DATA: We now know what is causing the bursts, and why the science
station exploded, sir. 
WESLEY: And we also know who killed Doctor Apgar.

[Holodeck - Space Station Lab]

PICARD: Chief Inspector, we've watched the events
replayed over and over again and I am impressed, and admittedly
dismayed by the body of evidence against Commander Riker. But isn't it
remarkable that with all the witnesses, all the different points of
view of the events aboard the space station, we haven't seen what
really happened? 
KRAG: I do not understand. 
PICARD: Allow me, with the help of Mister La Forge, to explain.
Computer, load Manua programme one, time index fourteen four one. Play
programme. 
APGAR: Fine. Whatever. Starfleet will get its Krieger wave converter.
These things take time. I've had a few setbacks, that's all. 
PICARD: Freeze. Mrs. Apgar, this was from your deposition. It would
seem to suggest that your husband had failed to create Krieger waves. 
MANUA: Yes, but he was very close to a breakthrough. 
PICARD: He said he needed more time. He was upset by our early arrival.
But in fact I maintain he already had made that breakthrough and that
he was lying to us. 
KRAG: On what basis? 
LAFORGE: For the last several hours, the Enterprise has been
experiencing unusual radiation bursts. We've identified them as Krieger
waves. 
TAYNA: Krieger waves? But that's impossible. From where? 
LAFORGE: From right here. Inside the holodeck. 
PICARD: We recreated your science lab in every conceivable detail.
Essentially, what was in the original lab is here. 
LAFORGE: Including the Krieger wave converter that Doctor Apgar claimed
didn't work. Except it does work. 
PICARD: Your field generator on the planet surface has been sending out
harmless energy charges, which this facsimile has been converting into
Krieger waves. 
RIKER: But the holodeck can't create anything dangerous. 
LAFORGE: Well, it didn't. When you get down to basics, the converter is
nothing more than a complex series of mirrors and reflective coils. The
energy from the field generator down on the planet simply reflects off
of elements in the convertor which turns it into highly focused Krieger
waves. 
PICARD: And those same waves have been randomly striking different
areas of our ship as we orbit the planet and our angle to the generator
changes. 
KRAG: Why would Apgar lie about his success? 
PICARD: Computer, run Manua programme one, time code, fourteen three
eight.

[Holodeck - Space Station Living quarters]

APGAR: Manua, someday I'll be able reward you for
all your patience. I'll get you everything you ever dreamed of. 
MANUA: I have all the reward I need. 
PICARD: Freeze programme. Run Riker programme two, time code, sixteen
one zero. 
RIKER: To your success, doctor. 
MANUA: And the rewards that come with it.
PICARD: Freeze. 
MANUA: I never said that. 
PICARD: Nevertheless, it seems clear that your husband was motivated to
earn the kind of rewards that pleased you, Mrs. Apgar. 
MANUA: What's wrong with that? 
TROI: Well, he wouldn't have earned great profits from his dealings
with Starfleet. We were only interested in a new power source. 
LAFORGE: But if he could turn this into a weapon it would be worth a
lot to the Romulans, the Ferengi and a few others. Now Doctor Apgar had
been ordering extra dicosilium for months. That's a pretty good
indication that he was trying to create larger reflective coils. 
PICARD: And when the away team arrived early he must have been worried
that Starfleet was becoming suspicious. He needed more time to finish
his work. Apgar said that each of the three versions. No doubt, he was
afraid that Commander Riker might
learn the truth and cut off his support prematurely. Discovering
Commander Riker with his wife didn't help matters.
I submit that he decided to murder Commander Riker. 
MANUA: Ridiculous. 
PICARD: Is it? Computer, run Tayna programme four, time index eighteen
one four.

