TROI LAFORGE APGAR MANUA TAYNA PICARD KRAG RIKER WESLEY WORF CRUSHER DATA

[Holodeck - Space Station Lab]

(Krag enters with Manua, in demure neck to ankle
dress) 
KRAG: In a sense we have already met Mrs. Apgar, so we shall dispense
with introductions. 
PICARD: Mrs. Apgar, you understand the purpose of this hearing? 
TROI: We understand how difficult this will be for you. If you need a
recess, please, don't hesitate to ask. 
PICARD: Would you like to make a statement before we begin? 
MANUA: No. I just know he did it. He killed my husband. 
KRAG: Computer, load Manua simulation one. 
[Holodeck - Space Station Living quarters]

KRAG: Run programme. 
MANUA: If you greet them with such a long face they're going to assume
something is wrong with the experiment. 
APGAR: I just need time. A little more time. 
MANUA: I'm certain they'll give you the time you need if you just show
a little charm. 
APGAR: You do that so much better than I do. (they kiss) Manua, someday
I'll be able to reward you for all your patience. I'll get you
everything you ever dreamed of. 
MANUA: I have all the reward I need. Now go on, I'll be right in. 
(Apgar leaves)
RIKER [OC]: Doctor Apgar? 
[Holodeck - Space Station Lab]

RIKER: I'm Commander William Riker. Lieutenant
Commander Geordi La Forge. 
APGAR [OC]: My assistant, Tayna. Well, let's get on with it, shall we? 
MANUA: Don't be in such a hurry, dear. Perhaps our guests would like
some refreshment? 
APGAR: My wife, Manua. 
RIKER: It's a pleasure to meet you, Manua. 
APGAR: I'm anxious to get started. 
RIKER: If you wish. 
APGAR: I must say I resent your early arrival, Commander I have much
work to do. 
RIKER: Doctor, I'll do everything in my power to make this as painless
as possible for both of us. Do you assist your husband in his work? 
MANUA: Oh, dear, no. I'm no scientist. 
RIKER: No, neither am I. 
MANUA: But I find this all fascinating, don't you? 
RIKER: Mister La Forge, why don't you take a look at the doctor's
experimental data. Later, you can give me an overview. 
APGAR: Fine. Whatever. Starfleet will get its Krieger wave converter.
These things take time. I've had a few setbacks, that's all. 
RIKER: Doctor, I'm not trying to put any pressure on you. I'm sure my
report will only underscore the need for continued
support of your research. 
APGAR: Tayna, I'll call up the records. Show the Commander's assistant
whatever he wants to see. 
TAYNA: Yes, Doctor. If you'll come with me? Our field generator is on
the planet, since it requires a minimum of five thousand
kilometres for the field to collimate. 
MANUA: Darling, let Tayna take care of that. I'm sure Commander Riker
wants to hear how close you are to a breakthrough. I'll pour the two of
you a drink and you can talk all about Krieger waves. 
[Holodeck - Space Station Living quarters ]

MANUA: (handing out the drinks) Commander. 
APGAR: To success. 
RIKER: Success. 
APGAR: Well, in a way, I suppose it's good that you're early. Manua's
right, it gives me a chance to show you the progress we've been making.

RIKER: I'd appreciate it if Commander La Forge and I could stay here
until the Enterprise returns. 
(Riker is continually staring at Manua) 
MANUA: It's a little inconvenient. 
RIKER: It would help to accelerate the process. 
APGAR: Well, if you wish, Commander. Now, where shall I start? Well,
first of all, you should know that I am very close to being able to
collimate a Krieger field.

[Holodeck - Space Station Guest quarters]

MANUA: Our guest quarters are very modest. 
RIKER: Very charming. It has your touch. 
MANUA: The station is small, and we don't often have guests. I use this
as my sanctuary. 
RIKER: Who do you need sanctuary from? 
MANUA: The environmental controls are here. 
(Riker closes the doors) 
MANUA: Commander, please. It's late and I'm tired. 
RIKER: A man more interested in Krieger waves than in a lovely woman
like you. How is that possible? 
MANUA: My husband is one of the great minds in the galaxy and we love
each other very much. 
(Riker pulls her towards him) 
MANUA: Please don't. 
RIKER: It must be very lonely. A princess in a very high tower. 
MANUA: Please, my husband will be looking for me. 
RIKER: Your sanctuary, remember? 
(Riker slips her dress off her shoulders) 
MANUA: Commander, don't, please! 
RIKER: (the real one) She's lying! That never happened. 
PICARD: Freeze programme. 
MANUA: Please. 
(Programme stops) 
RIKER: Captain, you know I would never act like that. 
PICARD: Commander Riker! 
RIKER: This isn't me. I wasn't the one who closed the door. I didn't
proposition her and I certainly didn't try to rape her. Why are you
doing this? 
MANUA: (real one) It's exactly what happened. 
TROI: Will, come on, sit down. 
KRAG: Resume programme. 
MANUA: Please. 
(Apgar enters) 
APGAR: I knew you'd try this, Riker. Do you think I didn't notice how
you looked at her? I'm not the fool you take me for. 
(Apgar takes a swing at him, gets blocked and is given two punches to
the stomach in return) 
APGAR: You won't get away with this. Your career is over. I'll see to
it. I swear I will, Riker. 
RIKER: If you report this, you'll be making a terrible mistake, Doctor.
A terrible mistake. 
(Apgar and Manua leave) 
KRAG: Freeze programme. 
MANUA: Your career was safe. He was a scientist. In another day some
fascinating bit of technical trivia would have distracted him. He would
have forgotten about you and his complaint to Starfleet. Excuse me. 
(Manua leaves the holodeck) 
PICARD: We'll, um, we'll take a short recess. 
(Picard and Krag leave) 
RIKER: Why would she lie like that? She was lying. You could tell. 
TROI: Will, I didn't sense any deception from her. 
RIKER: Then you think that I? 
TROI: No! No, of course not. I know you. You don't have to convince me
of anything. 
RIKER: We can't both be telling the truth. 
TROI: It is the truth as each of you remembers it. 
RIKER: But her version puts a noose around my neck.

[Sickbay]

CRUSHER: This is healing beautifully. I think you
can work on strengthening these muscles again. 
WORF [OC]: Security to Doctor Crusher. Evacuate. Repeat, evacuate.
Radiation emissions are indicated in Sickbay. 
(As Beverly and her patient leave, a hole is burnt in the bulkhead
under a desk. Later, the damage is being examined) 
DATA: It is definitely the same radiation that penetrated deck thirty
nine. Highly focused, very powerful but of unknown origin. 
LAFORGE: If this should happen in the engine core or the anti-matter
containment tanks, we'll be in big trouble, Captain. 
PICARD: Do you have any theories? 
WESLEY: Captain, Data's noticed something that's too strange to be a
coincidence. 
DATA: The two radiation events aboard the Enterprise occurred five
hours, twenty minutes and three seconds apart. The science station
exploded yesterday at almost four times that interval. 
WESLEY: There's a point zero zero one four second variance we haven't
been able to explain yet. 
RIKER: So you're saying there's a connection between the radiation
bursts and the explosion? 
DATA: We do not have the evidence to support that conclusion at this
time, Commander. 
CRUSHER: If they're right, we should be able to predict the next event.

LAFORGE: We're expecting it in just over five hours. 
PICARD: Take every precaution to protect the ship's vital areas. If we
haven't identified the source before the time interval, we'll leave
orbit. If you perceive any further danger, advise me immediately. 
(Picard leaves)
WESLEY: We'll figure it out for you, Commander.

[Holodeck]

TAYNA: After the fight, Doctor Apgar came to find
me he was very upset. 
KRAG: And he told you what happened? 
TAYNA: Yes, he told me everything that happened. 
KRAG: Based on Tayna's deposition, we have recreated the incident in
Commander Riker's quarters as Doctor Apgar described it to her.
Computer. 
PICARD: Inspector, Inspector, this is hearsay. She wasn't a witness to
this incident. 
KRAG: But Doctor Apgar is dead. Her statement is admissible according
Tanugan law and I insist you consider it. 
PICARD: Well, we'll watch this evidence, and we'll weigh it
accordingly. 
KRAG: Computer, run Tayna simulation three.

