RIKER CREWMAN TASHA PICARD GARRETT WESLEY GUINAN CRUSHER DATA

[Ten Forward]

(Guinan's clothes are different, the place is noisy
and very busy) 
CREWMAN [OC]: Now hear this. Fleet formation briefing in main war room
at fifteen hundred hours. Doctor Joshua Campbell, report to station
ops. Ensign Toms, please forward combat information. Ensign Thomas to
CIC. 
GUINAN: This isn't right. It's changed. 
[Bridge]

TASHA: It's clearing now, Captain. Definitely
Federation starship. Accessing registry. 
RIKER: Looks like they had a rough ride. 
TASHA: NCC one seven oh one C. USS Enterprise.

Military log, Combat date 43625.2. While
investigating an unusual radiation anomaly, the Enterprise has
encountered what could almost be called a ghost from its own past, the
Enterprise-C, the immediate predecessor to this battleship.

[Bridge]

(Only the Captain has a centre chair. Riker has to
lean on the rail) 
DATA: Sensors confirm design and specifications, Captain. Analysis of
hull and engine materials conform to engineering patterns and methods
of that time period. 
WESLEY: (in full Starfleet uniform) But that cruiser was destroyed with
all hands over twenty years ago. 
DATA: Presumed destroyed. The Enterprise C was last seen near the
Klingon outpost Narendra Three exactly twenty two years, three months
and four days ago. 
RIKER: And now they're here. 
PICARD: Has it been adrift for all those years, or has it has travelled
through time? 
DATA: It is a possibility, Captain. If that hypothesis is correct, the
phenomenon we just
encountered would be a temporal rift in space. 
PICARD: A rift? 
DATA: Possibly the formation of a Kerr loop from superstring material.
It would require high-energy interactions
occurring in the vicinity for such a structure to be formed. The rift
is certainly not stable, Captain. It could collapse at any time. 
TASHA: Captain. I'm able to scan the interior of the ship now, sir.
Heavy damage to warp field nacelles and hull bearing struts. Internal
space frame is... Life-signs, Captain! Readings are sporadic. It looks
like they have massive casualties, but some are still alive. 
RIKER: Bridge to Sickbay. Emergency teams, stand by transporter rooms. 
CRUSHER [OC]: Understood. 
PICARD: Belay that order, Doctor. 
RIKER: Respectfully, if I may suggest regardless of where they came
from, they are here now and they need our help. 
PICARD: Commander, if that ship has travelled into the future, we could
be dealing with variables that will alter the flow of our history. 
TASHA: Enterprise C is sending out a distress call, sir. Audio only. 
GARRETT [OC]: This is Captain Garrett of the Starship Enterprise, to
any Federation ship. We have been attacked by Romulan warships and
require immediate assistance. We've lost warp drive. Life support is
failing. 
RIKER: There's no record of the Romulans ever assaulting the Enterprise
C. 
TASHA: Voice message has ended, Captain. I'm only receiving their
automated distress signal now. 
PICARD: Open a hailing frequency. This is Captain Jean-Luc Picard of
the Federation, of a Federation starship. Standby to receive emergency
teams. Commander, we will handle this one step at a time. Stabilise
their power systems and tend to their injured, and avoid all
discussions of where and when they are. 
RIKER: Aye, sir. Lieutenant. 
WESLEY: Captain, message coming in from Starfleet monitor stations.
Klingon battlecruisers headed towards this sector. 
PICARD: Battle alert, Mister Crusher. Condition Yellow. 
WESLEY: Aye, sir. All decks report Condition Yellow.

