RIKER LAFORGE CREWMAN TASHA PICARD GARRETT WESLEY GUINAN GARRETT [OC] CRUSHER [OC] CRUSHER DATA RIKER [on viewscreen] CASTILLO
assistance months dead record 1701d stable interior came decks

[Bridge]

(Only the Captain has a centre chair. Riker has to
lean on the rail) 
DATA: Sensors confirm design and specifications, Captain. Analysis of
hull and engine materials conform to engineering patterns and methods
of that time period. 
WESLEY: (in full Starfleet uniform) But that cruiser was destroyed with
all hands over twenty years ago. 
DATA: Presumed destroyed. The Enterprise C was last seen near the
Klingon outpost Narendra Three exactly twenty two years, three months
and four days ago. 
RIKER: And now they're here. 
PICARD: Has it been adrift for all those years, or has it has travelled
through time? 
DATA: It is a possibility, Captain. If that hypothesis is correct, the
phenomenon we just
encountered would be a temporal rift in space. 
PICARD: A rift? 
DATA: Possibly the formation of a Kerr loop from superstring material.
It would require high-energy interactions
occurring in the vicinity for such a structure to be formed. The rift
is certainly not stable, Captain. It could collapse at any time. 
TASHA: Captain. I'm able to scan the interior of the ship now, sir.
Heavy damage to warp field nacelles and hull bearing struts. Internal
space frame is... Life-signs, Captain! Readings are sporadic. It looks
like they have massive casualties, but some are still alive. 
RIKER: Bridge to Sickbay. Emergency teams, stand by transporter rooms. 
CRUSHER [OC]: Understood. 
PICARD: Belay that order, Doctor. 
RIKER: Respectfully, if I may suggest regardless of where they came
from, they are here now and they need our help. 
PICARD: Commander, if that ship has travelled into the future, we could
be dealing with variables that will alter the flow of our history. 
TASHA: Enterprise C is sending out a distress call, sir. Audio only. 
GARRETT [OC]: This is Captain Garrett of the Starship Enterprise, to
any Federation ship. We have been attacked by Romulan warships and
require immediate assistance. We've lost warp drive. Life support is
failing. 
RIKER: There's no record of the Romulans ever assaulting the Enterprise
C. 
TASHA: Voice message has ended, Captain. I'm only receiving their
automated distress signal now. 
PICARD: Open a hailing frequency. This is Captain Jean-Luc Picard of
the Federation, of a Federation starship. Standby to receive emergency
teams. Commander, we will handle this one step at a time. Stabilise
their power systems and tend to their injured, and avoid all
discussions of where and when they are. 
RIKER: Aye, sir. Lieutenant. 
WESLEY: Captain, message coming in from Starfleet monitor stations.
Klingon battlecruisers headed towards this sector. 
PICARD: Battle alert, Mister Crusher. Condition Yellow. 
WESLEY: Aye, sir. All decks report Condition Yellow.

[1701-C Bridge] 
(Flames, charred bodies across consoles wearing
late TOS movie uniforms. The away team beam in.) 
RIKER: Captain Garrett? 
GARRETT: Yes. 
RIKER: I'm Commander William Riker. Our emergency teams are on board
your ship. Doctor? 
CRUSHER: The rest of the bridge crew is dead. She has a bad fracture
and has serious internal injuries. I'm going to have to get her back to
the Enterprise. 
GARRETT: To where? 
RIKER: We'll explain that later. 
GARRETT: You'll explain now, Commander. 
RIKER: We're from a Federation starship. We answered your distress
call. Your ship is in good hands, but we need to get you to our
Sickbay. 
GARRETT: Very well. 
CRUSHER: Crusher to transporter room. Two to beam directly to Sickbay. 
CREWMAN: Stand by for transport. 
(Crusher and Garrett are beamed away) 
LAFORGE: It's pretty bad, Commander. Looks like they were in a hell of
a fight. 
RIKER: If you can't stabilise the life support, we're going to have to
evacuate the ship. 
LAFORGE: I think we can do it. I'll have to get to Engineering though.
La Forge to damage control team alpha. Meet me on Engineering level
three. 
TASHA: Commander. 
(A sound of coughing. They move some debris and find another survivor) 
CASTILLO: Thanks. 
RIKER: Commander William Riker. 
CASTILLO: Lieutenant Castillo, helmsman. 
[1701D Bridge]

DATA: Away team reporting in, sir. 
PICARD: On screen, Mister Data. Go ahead, Commander. 
RIKER [on viewscreen]: We've stabilised life support. Mister La Forge
is working on restoring the main power couplings, but that'll take
time. It's a real mess down here, sir. 
PICARD: Survivors? 
RIKER [on viewscreen]: One hundred twenty five. 
PICARD: Recommendation? 
RIKER: I'd hate to have to scrap her. Starfleet could certainly use
another ship, even if she is old. 
PICARD: Agreed. But we can't stay in this area too long. You have nine
hours. If you can get her underway by then,
we'll escort her back to Starbase one oh five. If not, we'll evacuate
the survivors and destroy the ship. 
RIKER [on viewscreen]: Understood, sir. 
PICARD: Keep me posted, Picard out. 
(Guinan enters, looking around a lot) 
PICARD: Guinan? 
GUINAN: We need to talk. Somehow this, this is all wrong. This is not
the way it's supposed to be.

