PICARD [OC] RIKER LAFORGE TASHA PICARD GUINAN CASTILLO CRUSHER DATA
altered calls honour send better rations unless correct present

[Ten Forward]

(Guinan enters) 
TASHA: Deflector shield technology has advanced considerably during the
war. Our heat dissipation rates are probably double those of the
Enterprise-C, which means we can hang in a firefight a lot longer.
Guinan? 
GUINAN: Have you ordered yet, Tasha? 
TASHA: No, not yet. Is anything wrong? 
GUINAN: Not a thing. What can I get for you? 
TASHA: Just a couple of TKLs. We're in a hurry. Oh, this is, Lieutenant
Castillo. 
(Guinan moves slowly away) 
TASHA: First time for everything. 
CASTILLO: First time? 
TASHA: It's just that I've never seen anything bother her before. 
CASTILLO: What's a TKL? 
TASHA: Standard rations. Food replicators are on minimum power, so
everything else is diverted to defensive systems. So where was I? 
CASTILLO: You've told me more about tactical in an hour than I learned
my last year in the Academy. 
TASHA: You're going to need it, Lieutenant. 
CASTILLO: Hey, I've known you a whole day now, Lieutenant. I won't
salute if you won't. What did she call you? Tasha? 
TASHA: Yeah. 
CASTILLO: Most everybody just calls me Castillo. My mother calls me
Richard. 
TASHA: Okay, Castillo. 
CASTILLO: No, I think maybe I'd like it better if you called me
Richard. 
TASHA: Richard. 
PICARD [OC]: This is the Captain. Senior officers will report to my
Ready room immediately. 
TASHA: So much for lunch.

[Ready room]

CRUSHER: Captain, are you suggesting that we let
them return and attempt to complete their mission? 
PICARD: I am, Doctor. 
CRUSHER: Based on Guinan's intuition? 
RIKER: That won't accomplish anything, sir. There's no way they can
save Narendra Three. 
TASHA: Captain Garrett says there were four Romulan warbirds. The
Enterprise-C would be outmanned and outgunned. 
LAFORGE: Unless we were to re-arm them with modern 
PICARD: We can't do that. If we send that ship back with new technology
we will be altering the past. 
RIKER: But that's what you're talking about anyway, isn't it? Altering
the past. 
PICARD: We're talking about restoring the past. 
LAFORGE: How could Guinan know that history has been altered if she's
been altered along with the rest of us? 
DATA: Perhaps her species has a perception that goes beyond linear
time. 
PICARD: There are many things about her species we can't easily
explained. Yet it is very possible she is correct. A ship from the past
has travelled through time. How can we know what effect those events
will have on the present. Indeed, we shall never know for certain, if
Guinan is correct. But I have decided the consequences of that
possibility are too grave to ignore. Dismissed. 
RIKER: Sir, if you'd like my opinion 
PICARD: I think I'm aware of your opinion, Commander. This is a
briefing. I'm not seeking your consent. 
RIKER: With all due respect, sir, you'd be asking one hundred and
twenty five people to die a meaningless death. 
DATA: Not necessarily meaningless, Commander. The Klingons regard
honour above all else. If the crew of the Enterprise-C had died
fighting for the survival of a Klingon outpost, it would be considered
a meaningful act of honour by the Klingon Empire. 
PICARD: Even their deaths might have prevented this war. If the
Enterprise-C returns to the battle and its mission is a success,
history will be irrevocably changed. This time line will cease to exist
and a new future will have been created. I've considered the
alternatives. I'll go with Guinan's recommendation. Dismissed.

[Bridge]

CRUSHER: If she's right, we may not even be in an
alternate time line.
LAFORGE: Yeah, who knows if we're dead or alive.

