LAL TROI TROI [OC] PICARD DATA HAFTEL
shot means aren programmed possible member new awareness man

[Troi's quarters]

TROI: Come in. 
(Lal enters, obviously upset) 
TROI: Hello, Lal. How are you? 
LAL: Troi. Admiral. Admiral. An admiral from Starfleet has come to take
me away, Troi. I am scared. 
TROI: You are scared, aren't you? 
LAL: I feel it. How is this possible? 
TROI: I don't know. 
LAL: This is what it means to feel. This is what it means to feel.

[Observation lounge]

HAFTEL: You have Lal off to a wonderful start in
life, Commander. And that's what being a parent is all about. However,
I have finally decided that I must ask you to release her to me. 
DATA: May I ask why, sir? 
HAFTEL: All the other arguments aside, there's one that is irrefutable.
There are only two Soong-type androids in existence. It would be very
dangerous to have you both in the same place. Especially aboard a
starship. One lucky shot by a Romulan, we'd lose you both. 
PICARD: Admiral, that is a fine argument, but it doesn't change my
feeling that the proper place for Lal to develop is by Data's side. 
HAFTEL: You're not a parent, Captain. I am. I have learned, with
difficulty, that there comes a time when all parents must give up their
children for their own good. 
PICARD: This is not the time. Damn it, even I can see the umbilical
cord is virtually uncut. The child, the child depends on him. 
HAFTEL: Mister Data, it would be better for Lal if she left knowing you
had voluntarily decided that this was the best course of action. 
DATA: Admiral, when I created Lal, it was in the hope that someday she
would choose to enter the Academy and become a member of Starfleet. I
wanted to give something back in return for all Starfleet has given me.
I still do. But Lal is my child. You ask that I volunteer to give her
up. I cannot. It would violate every lesson I have learned about human
parenting. I have brought a new life into this world, and it is my
duty, not Starfleet's, to guide her through these first difficult steps
to maturity, to support her as she learns, to prepare her to be a
contributing member of society. No one can relieve me from that
obligation. And I cannot ignore it. I am her father. 
HAFTEL: Then I regret that I must order you to transport Lal aboard my
ship. 
PICARD: Belay that order, Mister Data. 
HAFTEL: I beg your pardon? 
PICARD: I will take this to Starfleet myself. 
HAFTEL: I am Starfleet, Captain! Proceed, Commander. 
PICARD: Hold your ground, Mister Data. 
HAFTEL: Captain, you are jeopardising your command and your career. 
PICARD: There are times, sir, when men of good conscience cannot
blindly follow orders. You acknowledge their sentience, but you ignore
their personal liberties and freedom. Order a man to hand his child
over to the state? Not while I am his captain. If you wish, you can
accompany us to Starfleet, where we shall see 
TROI [OC]: Troi to Commander Data. Report to your lab at once. 
PICARD: Acknowledged, Counsellor. He's on his way. Is there a problem? 
TROI [OC]: Yes, Captain. Something is terribly wrong with Lal.

[Laboratory]

TROI: It lasted barely a moment. She experienced
fear and confusion. And then for no apparent reason she walked out of
my quarters. She didn't say another word, she just started walking here
and each step became more and more difficult. 
DATA: Lal is programmed to return to the lab in the event of a
malfunction. 
LAL: Father. 
DATA: Yes, Lal. I am here. 
PICARD: A malfunction. Emotional awareness. 
DATA: It appears to be a symptom of cascade failure. It would require
initialisation the base matrix without wiping out the higher functions.

HAFTEL: I agree. May I assist? 
DATA: Thank you, Admiral. 
HAFTEL: If you'll excuse us, Commander Data and I have much to do. 
(Data opens the top of Lal's head)

