LAL PICARD [OC] WORF [OC] HAFTEL [on monitor] GUINAN PICARD DATA
disturb taking acknowledged believes wishes understand away shuttle children

[Picard's quarters]

(Picard is in bed, resting) 
WORF [OC]: Captain, incoming signal. Starfleet priority one. Admiral
Haftel. 
PICARD: On my monitor, Lieutenant. Admiral. 
HAFTEL [on monitor]: Captain Picard, I hope I didn't disturb you. 
PICARD: Not at all. 
HAFTEL [on monitor]: I have discussed my concerns with Starfleet
Command. You are to hold your position until I join you. Then I shall
personally review the android's development. 
PICARD: Understood. 
HAFTEL [on monitor]: I should advise you, Captain, that if I'm not
satisfied with what I see, I am empowered to take the android back with
me. Haftel out.

Captain's log, supplemental. We are holding
position pending the arrival of Admiral Haftel from Starfleet Research.
Commander Data is completing his final neural transfers to the android
he has named Lal, which I have learned, in the language Hindi means
beloved.

[Ten Forward]

GUINAN: Hello, Data. 
DATA: Guinan. 
(He steers Lal away from the interesting people and onto a bar stool) 
GUINAN: Lal, how are you? 
LAL: I am functioning within normal. I am fine, thank you. 
GUINAN: Good. 
DATA: Guinan, Lal needs to observe human behaviour. 
GUINAN: She's in the right place for it. 
DATA: And for this opportunity, she is willing to provide services to
assist you. 
LAL: Father says I would learn a great deal from working with someone
as old as you. 
GUINAN: You're hired. The most important part about working some place
like this is the art listening. I have some expertise, so I shall teach
you. 
DATA: That would be most beneficial. 
LAL: I've been programmed with a listing of fourteen hundred and twelve
known beverages. 
GUINAN: What did you say? 
LAL: I've been programmed with a listing of fourteen hundred 
GUINAN: I've? 
DATA: You have used a verbal contraction. 
GUINAN: You said I've instead of I have. 
DATA: It is a skill my programme has never mastered. 
LAL: Then I will desist. 
DATA: No. You have exceeded my abilities. I do not object, but I do not
understand how this has
occurred. 
PICARD [OC]: Picard to Commander Data. Please report to my Ready room. 
DATA: Aye, sir.

[Ready room]

DATA: I am certain the Admiral is anxious to meet
Lal. I have been sending him regular status reports on her development.

PICARD: His visit is not just an inspection of Lal's progress. He has
expressed a concern for her environment. 
DATA: Her environment, sir? 
PICARD: He believes the Daystrom annex on Galor Four would be more
suitable. 
DATA: Then he wishes to relocate us? 
PICARD: Not you, Data. Just her. 
DATA: I would not be in favour of that, sir. There are many things that
she can learn only from me. My lifetime of experiences. The mistakes I
have made and what I have learned from them. 
WORF [OC]: Captain, Commander Riker's shuttle has just returned. 
PICARD: Acknowledged, Lieutenant. Will you advise Commander Riker I
will meet with him in one hour. Picard out. The Admiral is taking the
position that Lal's development should be overseen by the most
experienced personnel. 
DATA: Then he is questioning my ability as a parent. 
PICARD: In a manner of speaking. 
DATA: Does the Admiral have children? 
PICARD: Yes, I believe he does, Data. Why? 
DATA: I am forced to wonder how much experience he had as a parent when
his first child was born.

