LAL PICARD TROI DATA HAFTEL

[Observation lounge]

HAFTEL: Well, Lal, I've been looking forward to
meeting you. 
LAL: Why? 
HAFTEL: You're very important to us at Starfleet Research. We have got
quite a facility at Galor Four. I want like to show it to you. 
PICARD: In fact, the Admiral is fact suggesting you be moved to Galor
Four, Lal. 
LAL: Have I done something wrong? 
HAFTEL: Oh, no, of course not. We just want to broaden your experience.
There's only so much you can learn on a starship. I'm sure you'll agree
to that. 
LAL: Yes, I'll agree. 
HAFTEL: Good. 
LAL: Thus, the natural conclusion would be when I have learned all
there is to learn aboard the starship, I would relocate to Galor Four. 
HAFTEL: That is not the natural conclusion here. 
LAL: I believe it is. 
PICARD: You see, Lal, the Admiral is concerned that you need more
guidance than your father can provide here on the Enterprise. 
HAFTEL: Yes. Don't misunderstand me, I have great respect for your
father. 
LAL: You do not speak with respect. 
HAFTEL: She seems very adversarial. 
LAL: I'm merely stating a fact, Admiral. 
HAFTEL: I don't think your father has taught you selective judgment in
the verbalisation of your own thoughts. That is a skill we will help
you develop. 
LAL: My father is already helping me, sir. 
HAFTEL: The question is, has he helped you enough? 
LAL: Are you asking me, sir? 
HAFTEL: No, I didn't mean to ask any 
PICARD: Why don't we, Admiral? In all these discussions, no one has
ever mentioned her wishes. She's a free, sentient being. What are your
wishes, Lal? 
LAL: I wish to remain here, Captain Picard. 
PICARD: Thank you, Lal. You're excused.

[Troi's quarters]

TROI: Come in. 
(Lal enters, obviously upset) 
TROI: Hello, Lal. How are you? 
LAL: Troi. Admiral. Admiral. An admiral from Starfleet has come to take
me away, Troi. I am scared. 
TROI: You are scared, aren't you? 
LAL: I feel it. How is this possible? 
TROI: I don't know. 
LAL: This is what it means to feel. This is what it means to feel.

[Observation lounge]

HAFTEL: You have Lal off to a wonderful start in
life, Commander. And that's what being a parent is all about. However,
I have finally decided that I must ask you to release her to me. 
DATA: May I ask why, sir? 
HAFTEL: All the other arguments aside, there's one that is irrefutable.
There are only two Soong-type androids in existence. It would be very
dangerous to have you both in the same place. Especially aboard a
starship. One lucky shot by a Romulan, we'd lose you both. 
PICARD: Admiral, that is a fine argument, but it doesn't change my
feeling that the proper place for Lal to develop is by Data's side. 
HAFTEL: You're not a parent, Captain. I am. I have learned, with
difficulty, that there comes a time when all parents must give up their
children for their own good. 
PICARD: This is not the time. Damn it, even I can see the umbilical
cord is virtually uncut. The child, the child depends on him. 
HAFTEL: Mister Data, it would be better for Lal if she left knowing you
had voluntarily decided that this was the best course of action. 
DATA: Admiral, when I created Lal, it was in the hope that someday she
would choose to enter the Academy and become a member of Starfleet. I
wanted to give something back in return for all Starfleet has given me.
I still do. But Lal is my child. You ask that I volunteer to give her
up. I cannot. It would violate every lesson I have learned about human
parenting. I have brought a new life into this world, and it is my
duty, not Starfleet's, to guide her through these first difficult steps
to maturity, to support her as she learns, to prepare her to be a
contributing member of society. No one can relieve me from that
obligation. And I cannot ignore it. I am her father. 
HAFTEL: Then I regret that I must order you to transport Lal aboard my
ship. 
PICARD: Belay that order, Mister Data. 
HAFTEL: I beg your pardon? 
PICARD: I will take this to Starfleet myself. 
HAFTEL: I am Starfleet, Captain! Proceed, Commander. 
PICARD: Hold your ground, Mister Data. 
HAFTEL: Captain, you are jeopardising your command and your career. 
PICARD: There are times, sir, when men of good conscience cannot
blindly follow orders. You acknowledge their sentience, but you ignore
their personal liberties and freedom. Order a man to hand his child
over to the state? Not while I am his captain. If you wish, you can
accompany us to Starfleet, where we shall see 
TROI [OC]: Troi to Commander Data. Report to your lab at once. 
PICARD: Acknowledged, Counsellor. He's on his way. Is there a problem? 
TROI [OC]: Yes, Captain. Something is terribly wrong with Lal.

