LAL RIKER WORF PICARD GUINAN DATA

[Ten Forward]

GUINAN: Hello, Data. 
DATA: Guinan. 
(He steers Lal away from the interesting people and onto a bar stool) 
GUINAN: Lal, how are you? 
LAL: I am functioning within normal. I am fine, thank you. 
GUINAN: Good. 
DATA: Guinan, Lal needs to observe human behaviour. 
GUINAN: She's in the right place for it. 
DATA: And for this opportunity, she is willing to provide services to
assist you. 
LAL: Father says I would learn a great deal from working with someone
as old as you. 
GUINAN: You're hired. The most important part about working some place
like this is the art listening. I have some expertise, so I shall teach
you. 
DATA: That would be most beneficial. 
LAL: I've been programmed with a listing of fourteen hundred and twelve
known beverages. 
GUINAN: What did you say? 
LAL: I've been programmed with a listing of fourteen hundred 
GUINAN: I've? 
DATA: You have used a verbal contraction. 
GUINAN: You said I've instead of I have. 
DATA: It is a skill my programme has never mastered. 
LAL: Then I will desist. 
DATA: No. You have exceeded my abilities. I do not object, but I do not
understand how this has
occurred. 
PICARD [OC]: Picard to Commander Data. Please report to my Ready room. 
DATA: Aye, sir.

[Ready room]

DATA: I am certain the Admiral is anxious to meet
Lal. I have been sending him regular status reports on her development.

PICARD: His visit is not just an inspection of Lal's progress. He has
expressed a concern for her environment. 
DATA: Her environment, sir? 
PICARD: He believes the Daystrom annex on Galor Four would be more
suitable. 
DATA: Then he wishes to relocate us? 
PICARD: Not you, Data. Just her. 
DATA: I would not be in favour of that, sir. There are many things that
she can learn only from me. My lifetime of experiences. The mistakes I
have made and what I have learned from them. 
WORF [OC]: Captain, Commander Riker's shuttle has just returned. 
PICARD: Acknowledged, Lieutenant. Will you advise Commander Riker I
will meet with him in one hour. Picard out. The Admiral is taking the
position that Lal's development should be overseen by the most
experienced personnel. 
DATA: Then he is questioning my ability as a parent. 
PICARD: In a manner of speaking. 
DATA: Does the Admiral have children? 
PICARD: Yes, I believe he does, Data. Why? 
DATA: I am forced to wonder how much experience he had as a parent when
his first child was born.

[Ten Forward]

(A couple by the far wall are gazing into each
others eyes and holding hands) 
GUINAN: You see? 
LAL: What are they doing? 
GUINAN: It's called flirting. 
LAL: They seem to be communicating telepathically. 
GUINAN: They're both thinking the same thing, if that's what you mean. 
LAL: Guinan, is the joining of hands a symbolic act for humans? 
GUINAN: It shows affection. Humans like to touch each other. They start
with the hands, and go from there. 
LAL: He's biting that female. 
GUINAN: No, he's not biting. They're pressing lips. It's called
kissing. 
LAL: Why are they leaving? 
GUINAN: Lal, there are some things your father's just going to have to
explain to you when he thinks you're ready. 
(Guinan moves away, and Riker comes in. Lal promptly starts flirting,
and her voice deepens) 
RIKER: You're new around here, aren't you? 
LAL: Yes. 
(She reaches across the bar, pulls Riker towards herself and kisses
him. Data enters) 
GUINAN: Lal! Lal, put him down. 
DATA: Commander, what are your intentions toward my daughter? 
RIKER: Your daughter? Nice to meet you. 
(He beats a hasty exit) 
