LAL PICARD TROI DATA
available just level make talking expected dismayed anticipate achieve

[Ready room]

PICARD: What you have done will have serious
ramifications. I am truly dismayed that you told
no one of what you were doing. 
DATA: I am sorry, Captain. I did not anticipate your objections. Do you
wish me to deactivate Lal? 
PICARD: It's a life, Data. It can't be activated and deactivated
simply. This is a most stupendous undertaking. Have you any idea what
will happen when Starfleet learns about this? 
DATA: I have followed all of Starfleet regulations to the best of my
ability. I expected they would be pleased. 
PICARD: Well, you have taken on quite a responsibility, Data. 
DATA: To prepare, I have scanned all available literature on parenting.
There seems to be much confusion on this issue. One traditional
doctrine insists, spare the rod and spoil the child, suggesting a
punitive approach. While another more liberal
attitude would allow the child enormous freedom. 
PICARD: Data 
DATA: And what Klingons do to their children 
PICARD: Data! I'm not talking about parenting. I am talking about the
extraordinary consequences of creating new life. 
DATA: Does that not describe becoming a parent, sir? 
PICARD: Data, you are seeking to achieve what only your own creator has
been able to achieve. To make another functioning, sentient, android.
To make another Data. 
DATA: That is why I must attempt this, sir. I have observed that in
most species, there is a primal instinct to perpetuate themselves.
Until now, I have been the last of my kind. If I were to be damaged or
destroyed, I would be lost forever. But if I am successful
with the creation of Lal, my continuance is assured. I understand the
risk, sir. and I am prepared to accept the responsibility.

[Corridor]

LAL: Gender female. 
TROI: That's right, Lal. Just like me. 
LAL: Gender male. 
DATA: Correct. 
LAL: I am gender neuter. Inadequate. 
DATA: That is why you must choose a gender, Lal, to complete your
appearance. 
LAL: What are criteria? 
DATA: Access your data bank on sexuality, level two. That will define
the parameters. 
TROI: Whatever you choose will be yours for your lifetime. It's a
decision that will affect how people interrelate with you. 
LAL: I choose your sex and appearance. 
DATA: No, Lal. That would be confusing. We are taking you to the
holodeck to show you several thousand composites I have programmed. You
may choose from them. 
TROI: Several thousand? 
DATA: This is a big decision 
