LAL TROI LAFORGE PICARD WESLEY DATA

[Laboratory]

(We see Data fasten a foot to a leg, and make it
wiggle its toes. Then the platform it is on ascends out of our sight.
He opens the door again) 
DATA: You may enter now.
LAFORGE: Come on, Data, what is this? 
WESLEY: Yeah, Data. what's going on? 
DATA: I have invited you here to meet someone. 
(The platform is brought down from the ceiling again. It contains what
would be a naked person, if it were flesh and blood) 
DATA: This is Lal. Lal, say hello to Counsellor Deanna Troi 
LAL: Hello Counsellor Deanna Troi. 
TROI: How do you do, Lal? 
LAL: I am functioning within normal parameters. 
DATA: Lal, this is Geordi La Forge. 
LAL: Purpose for exterior drapings, Father? 
WESLEY: (mouthed only) Father? 
DATA: It is an accepted custom that we wear clothing. 
WESLEY: Data, it called you Father. 
DATA: Yes, Wesley. Lal is my child. 
Captain's log, supplemental. I have just been
advised of a highly unusual project undertaken by Commander Data. 
[Laboratory]

DATA: Lal has a positronic brain one very similar
to my own. I began programming it at the cybernetics conference. 
LAFORGE: But nobody's ever been able to do that, Data, at least not
since you were programmed. 
DATA: True, but here was a new submicron matrix transfer technology
introduced at the conference which I discovered could be used to lay
down complex neural net pathways. 
WESLEY: So you did a transfer from your brain into Lal's. 
DATA: Exactly, Wesley. I realised for the first time it was possible to
continue Doctor Soong's work. My initial transfers produced very
encouraging results, so I brought Lal's brain back with me. 
PICARD: Data, I would like to have been consulted. 
DATA: I have not observed anyone else on board consulting you about
their procreation, Captain. 
TROI: Why didn't you give it a more human look, Data? 
DATA: I decided to allow my child to choose its own sex and appearance.

PICARD: Commander Data, at your convenience, I would like to talk to
you in my Ready room. Counsellor? 
