LAL WORF PICARD GUINAN CRUSHER DATA HAFTEL

[Crusher's office]

DATA: Doctor? I require your advice as a successful
parent. 
CRUSHER: Well, thank you, Data. I'd like to think I was. Well, please
sit down. How's Lal? 
DATA: Lal is realising she is not the same as other children. 
CRUSHER: Is it lonely for her? 
DATA: She does not feel the emotion of loneliness, but she can observe
how isolated she is from the others. She wishes to be more like them. I
do not know how to help her. Lal is passing into sentience. It is
perhaps the most difficult stage of her development. 
CRUSHER: When Wesley was growing up, he was an extraordinarily bright
boy, but he had a hard time making friends. I think the other children
were a little intimidated by him. 
DATA: That is precisely what happened to Lal in school. How did you
help him? 
CRUSHER: Well, first I went back to my own childhood and remembered how
painful it was for me. Because I remember a time when I wasn't very
popular either. And when I told that to Wesley, it made him feel a
little better. He knew I understood what he was going through. 
DATA: I have not told Lal how difficult it was for me to assimilate. I
did not wish it to discourage her. Perhaps this was an error of
judgement. 
CRUSHER: You didn't have any one experienced to help you through
sentience. She at least has you. Just help her realise that she's not
alone, and be there to nurture her when she needs love and attention. 
DATA: I can give her attention, Doctor. But I am incapable of giving
her love. 
(Data leaves) 
CRUSHER: Now why do I find that so hard to believe?

[Picard's quarters]

(Picard is in bed, resting) 
WORF [OC]: Captain, incoming signal. Starfleet priority one. Admiral
Haftel. 
PICARD: On my monitor, Lieutenant. Admiral. 
HAFTEL [on monitor]: Captain Picard, I hope I didn't disturb you. 
PICARD: Not at all. 
HAFTEL [on monitor]: I have discussed my concerns with Starfleet
Command. You are to hold your position until I join you. Then I shall
personally review the android's development. 
PICARD: Understood. 
HAFTEL [on monitor]: I should advise you, Captain, that if I'm not
satisfied with what I see, I am empowered to take the android back with
me. Haftel out.

Captain's log, supplemental. We are holding
position pending the arrival of Admiral Haftel from Starfleet Research.
Commander Data is completing his final neural transfers to the android
he has named Lal, which I have learned, in the language Hindi means
beloved.

[Ten Forward]

GUINAN: Hello, Data. 
DATA: Guinan. 
(He steers Lal away from the interesting people and onto a bar stool) 
GUINAN: Lal, how are you? 
LAL: I am functioning within normal. I am fine, thank you. 
GUINAN: Good. 
DATA: Guinan, Lal needs to observe human behaviour. 
GUINAN: She's in the right place for it. 
DATA: And for this opportunity, she is willing to provide services to
assist you. 
LAL: Father says I would learn a great deal from working with someone
as old as you. 
GUINAN: You're hired. The most important part about working some place
like this is the art listening. I have some expertise, so I shall teach
you. 
DATA: That would be most beneficial. 
LAL: I've been programmed with a listing of fourteen hundred and twelve
known beverages. 
GUINAN: What did you say? 
LAL: I've been programmed with a listing of fourteen hundred 
GUINAN: I've? 
DATA: You have used a verbal contraction. 
GUINAN: You said I've instead of I have. 
DATA: It is a skill my programme has never mastered. 
LAL: Then I will desist. 
DATA: No. You have exceeded my abilities. I do not object, but I do not
understand how this has
occurred. 
PICARD [OC]: Picard to Commander Data. Please report to my Ready room. 
DATA: Aye, sir.

