LAL PICARD GUINAN DATA HAFTEL

[Laboratory]

DATA: So Lal now possesses the sum of my
programming. 
HAFTEL: Her neural nets are laid down identically to yours? 
DATA: There do seem to be some variations on the quantum level. She can
use contractions. I cannot. 
HAFTEL: An aberration. What have you done about this? 
DATA: I have maintained records on positronic matrix activity,
behavioral norms, and all verbal patterns. I have seen no evidence of
other aberrations. 
PICARD: It would seem you've actually improved upon yourself, Data. 
DATA: Is that not the goal of every parent, sir? 
HAFTEL: But as a good father, don't you think it would be better,
especially in light of this new aberration, if Lal were close to people
trained in diagnostic and evaluative procedures? 
DATA: I am programmed with the procedures you mention, sir. And in any
meaningful evaluation of Lal, you would require a model for a basis of
comparison. I am the only model available, Admiral. 
HAFTEL: You haven't mastered human cultural and behavioural norms
yourself yet, have you? 
DATA: No, sir. 
HAFTEL: Where is Lal now?

[Ten Forward]

HAFTEL: This is your idea of appropriate guidance? 
DATA: It is an opportunity for her to observe human behaviour and more
importantly, for her to interact with her crewmates. 
HAFTEL: She is capable of running over sixty trillion calculations per
second, and you have her working as a cocktail waitress. 
PICARD: Admiral, she is under the strict guidance of a woman in whom I
have absolute trust. Ten Forward is the centre of the ship's social
activity. Everyone on board comes here. 
HAFTEL: I'm not convinced the sort of behaviour she observes here will
be a positive influence. 
GUINAN: Most people when they come here behave themselves. If they
don't, I ask them to leave. 
PICARD: Admiral Haftel, Guinan. She runs Ten Forward. How is Lal doing?

GUINAN: She spills a few drinks every now and then, but she's learning.

HAFTEL: I want the android out of here. 
GUINAN: Now, Admiral, you've been in one or two bars in your time. 
HAFTEL: Have her report to me immediately for an interview.

[Observation lounge]

HAFTEL: Well, Lal, I've been looking forward to
meeting you. 
LAL: Why? 
HAFTEL: You're very important to us at Starfleet Research. We have got
quite a facility at Galor Four. I want like to show it to you. 
PICARD: In fact, the Admiral is fact suggesting you be moved to Galor
Four, Lal. 
LAL: Have I done something wrong? 
HAFTEL: Oh, no, of course not. We just want to broaden your experience.
There's only so much you can learn on a starship. I'm sure you'll agree
to that. 
LAL: Yes, I'll agree. 
HAFTEL: Good. 
LAL: Thus, the natural conclusion would be when I have learned all
there is to learn aboard the starship, I would relocate to Galor Four. 
HAFTEL: That is not the natural conclusion here. 
LAL: I believe it is. 
PICARD: You see, Lal, the Admiral is concerned that you need more
guidance than your father can provide here on the Enterprise. 
HAFTEL: Yes. Don't misunderstand me, I have great respect for your
father. 
LAL: You do not speak with respect. 
HAFTEL: She seems very adversarial. 
LAL: I'm merely stating a fact, Admiral. 
HAFTEL: I don't think your father has taught you selective judgment in
the verbalisation of your own thoughts. That is a skill we will help
you develop. 
LAL: My father is already helping me, sir. 
HAFTEL: The question is, has he helped you enough? 
LAL: Are you asking me, sir? 
HAFTEL: No, I didn't mean to ask any 
PICARD: Why don't we, Admiral? In all these discussions, no one has
ever mentioned her wishes. She's a free, sentient being. What are your
wishes, Lal? 
LAL: I wish to remain here, Captain Picard. 
PICARD: Thank you, Lal. You're excused.

