LAL PICARD HAFTEL [on monitor] WESLEY CRUSHER [OC] DATA
paintings sit did positive mid complex supposed learning sense

[Data's quarters]

DATA: This is home, Lal.
LAL: Home. Place of residence. Social unit formed by a family living
together. 
DATA: Yes. We are a family, Lal. Chair. To sit in. Sit. Good. Painting.

LAL: Painting. Colours produced on a surface by applying a pigment. 
DATA: Yes. I will teach you to recognise the artistry in paintings. 
(But Lal has moved on from the chair to the sofa) 
LAL: Soft. 
DATA: Yes, very good, Lal. You have correctly processed the sense of
touch. There are many fascinating experiences I wish to share with you.

LAL: Painting. 
DATA: No, that is a flower, Lal. Inhale. 
LAL: Smell! 
DATA: Yes. 
LAL: Show me more, Father.

Second officer's science log, supplemental.
Training in social skills at the most elementary level has begun. Lal
is progressing very slowly but is not deterred by early setbacks. While
motor coordination has improved twelve percent, reflexes still need to
develop. Visual comprehension is especially difficult for Lal.
Translating her vast data banks into recognisable applications may
improve with additional transfers. She is also learning to supplement
her innate android behaviour with simulated human responses. And it is
interesting to note that as I observe Lal learning about her world, I
share in her experience, almost as though I am learning things over
again.

(Beneath that narrative, we see Lal taking a drink
but not swallowing, putting her hand up to catch the ball a good two
seconds too late, being shown how to blink, and finally eating a
dessert in Ten Forward, then using her napkin)

 [Laboratory]

DATA: The transfer itself is fairly simple. Each
neural pathway in my brain is duplicated precisely in hers.
Theoretically, the duplicate brains should be able to store and process
the same information but until all of the transfers are complete, we
will not know for certain. 
WESLEY: What does Lal do while you're on duty? 
DATA: She studies in our quarters. She requires very little
supervision. Lal is quite self-sufficient. 
WESLEY: Have you considered sending her to school? 
DATA: She already has access to the sum of human knowledge from me. 
WESLEY: Data, she could learn a lot by being with kids her own age. 
DATA: She is only two weeks old. 
WESLEY: Okay, close to her own age. 
CRUSHER [OC]: Doctor Crusher to Ensign Crusher. Aren't you supposed to
be getting a hair cut, Wesley? 
WESLEY: I'm on my way. Parents. Nothing personal. 
(Wesley leaves and Data switches Lal on) 
DATA: Lal, the third crosslink transfer series is complete. 
LAL: Father? What is my purpose? 
DATA: Purpose? 
LAL: My function, my reason for being? 
DATA: That is a complex question, Lal. I can only begin to answer by
telling you that our function is to contribute in a positive way to the
world in which we live. 
LAL: Why am I me instead of someone else? 
DATA: Because you are my child. 
LAL: Where did I come from? 
DATA: These questions suggest that we have made a successful transfer
of the heuristic associative pathways. You will now begin to process
information on logic, aesthetics, metaphysics, and epistemology. You
are truly becoming sentient, Lal. 
LAL: How? 
DATA: By developing the awareness to examine and question your
perceptions. 
LAL: Why do we have two hands? Why not three or four? Why is the sky
black? Why do 
(He switches her off in mid-question) 
DATA: Tomorrow will be your first day of school, Lal.

[Ready room]

PICARD: I assure you, Admiral, there's no better
guide into this life for Lal than Data. He's doing an excellent job. 
HAFTEL [on monitor]: We all have enormous admiration for what Commander
Data has already achieved, but we have superior facilities and
personnel here at Galor Four. A starship is hardly a proper setting 
PICARD: This starship's mission is to seek out new life and that is
exactly what Commander Data is doing, under my guidance. 
HAFTEL [on monitor]: We all want what's best for the new android. 
PICARD: As do I. I would be willing to consider releasing Lal and Data
to you so that he may continue his work with her. 
HAFTEL [on monitor]: His presence would undoubtedly retard the new
android's progress. 
PICARD: Admiral, to you, Lal is a new android. But to Data, she's his
child. 
HAFTEL [on monitor]: His child? 
PICARD: Yes, Admiral. It may not be easy for you and I to see her that
way, but he does. And I respect that. They will remain here for now. 
HAFTEL [on monitor]: Starfleet's policy on research is clear. You're
making your stand on very uncertain ground. I do hope it doesn't fall
out from under you. Haftel out.

