PICARD GUINAN DATA HAFTEL
living woman acknowledge privileges actually behave laboratory model open

[Ready room]

HAFTEL: No objective viewpoint could see it any
other way. 
PICARD: Forgive me, Admiral, I thought you were sent here to form an
opinion, not to justify one. 
HAFTEL: Captain, do not make this more difficult than it needs to be. 
PICARD: I see no need for it to be difficult at all. I understand your
concerns. What I'm asking for is time, patience. If you have an open
mind, I'm sure you will see that it is imperative that Data and Lal be
kept together during the formative stages of her development. After
that, I have no doubt Commander Data will be delighted to deliver her
to Starfleet Research. 
HAFTEL: That's not satisfactory. If mistakes are made, the damage
that's done might be irreparable. 
PICARD: I'm convinced the damage will be irreparable if they're
separated. 
HAFTEL: Captain, are we talking about breaking up a family? Isn't that
rather a sentimental attitude about androids? 
PICARD: They're living, sentient beings. Their rights and privileges in
our society have been defined. I helped define them. 
HAFTEL: Yes, Captain, and I am more than willing to acknowledge that.
What you must acknowledge is that Lal may be a technological step
forward in the development of artificial intelligence. 
PICARD: A most significant step. 
HAFTEL: Yes, and work like this demands to be done with controlled
procedures. 
PICARD: Which Commander Data is following. 
HAFTEL: In effective isolation. And that is what Starfleet Research
finds unacceptable. 
[Laboratory]

DATA: So Lal now possesses the sum of my
programming. 
HAFTEL: Her neural nets are laid down identically to yours? 
DATA: There do seem to be some variations on the quantum level. She can
use contractions. I cannot. 
HAFTEL: An aberration. What have you done about this? 
DATA: I have maintained records on positronic matrix activity,
behavioral norms, and all verbal patterns. I have seen no evidence of
other aberrations. 
PICARD: It would seem you've actually improved upon yourself, Data. 
DATA: Is that not the goal of every parent, sir? 
HAFTEL: But as a good father, don't you think it would be better,
especially in light of this new aberration, if Lal were close to people
trained in diagnostic and evaluative procedures? 
DATA: I am programmed with the procedures you mention, sir. And in any
meaningful evaluation of Lal, you would require a model for a basis of
comparison. I am the only model available, Admiral. 
HAFTEL: You haven't mastered human cultural and behavioural norms
yourself yet, have you? 
DATA: No, sir. 
HAFTEL: Where is Lal now?

[Ten Forward]

HAFTEL: This is your idea of appropriate guidance? 
DATA: It is an opportunity for her to observe human behaviour and more
importantly, for her to interact with her crewmates. 
HAFTEL: She is capable of running over sixty trillion calculations per
second, and you have her working as a cocktail waitress. 
PICARD: Admiral, she is under the strict guidance of a woman in whom I
have absolute trust. Ten Forward is the centre of the ship's social
activity. Everyone on board comes here. 
HAFTEL: I'm not convinced the sort of behaviour she observes here will
be a positive influence. 
GUINAN: Most people when they come here behave themselves. If they
don't, I ask them to leave. 
PICARD: Admiral Haftel, Guinan. She runs Ten Forward. How is Lal doing?

GUINAN: She spills a few drinks every now and then, but she's learning.

HAFTEL: I want the android out of here. 
GUINAN: Now, Admiral, you've been in one or two bars in your time. 
HAFTEL: Have her report to me immediately for an interview.

