LAL PICARD DATA HAFTEL
family acknowledge serve hands objective behavioural model hold sent

[Data's quarters]

LAL: I watch them and I can do the things they do
but I will never feel the emotions. I'll never know love. 
DATA: It is a limitation we must learn to accept, Lal. 
LAL: Then why do you still try to emulate humans? What purpose does it
serve except to remind you that you are incomplete? 
DATA: I have asked myself that many times as I have struggled to be
more human. Until I realised it is the struggle itself that is most
important. We must strive to be more than we are, Lal. It does not
matter that we will never reach our ultimate goal. The effort yields
its own rewards. 
LAL: You are wise, Father. 
DATA: It is the difference between knowledge and experience. 
LAL: I learned today that humans like to hold hands. It is a symbolic
gesture of affection. 
(They hold hands)

[Ready room]

HAFTEL: No objective viewpoint could see it any
other way. 
PICARD: Forgive me, Admiral, I thought you were sent here to form an
opinion, not to justify one. 
HAFTEL: Captain, do not make this more difficult than it needs to be. 
PICARD: I see no need for it to be difficult at all. I understand your
concerns. What I'm asking for is time, patience. If you have an open
mind, I'm sure you will see that it is imperative that Data and Lal be
kept together during the formative stages of her development. After
that, I have no doubt Commander Data will be delighted to deliver her
to Starfleet Research. 
HAFTEL: That's not satisfactory. If mistakes are made, the damage
that's done might be irreparable. 
PICARD: I'm convinced the damage will be irreparable if they're
separated. 
HAFTEL: Captain, are we talking about breaking up a family? Isn't that
rather a sentimental attitude about androids? 
PICARD: They're living, sentient beings. Their rights and privileges in
our society have been defined. I helped define them. 
HAFTEL: Yes, Captain, and I am more than willing to acknowledge that.
What you must acknowledge is that Lal may be a technological step
forward in the development of artificial intelligence. 
PICARD: A most significant step. 
HAFTEL: Yes, and work like this demands to be done with controlled
procedures. 
PICARD: Which Commander Data is following. 
HAFTEL: In effective isolation. And that is what Starfleet Research
finds unacceptable. 
[Laboratory]

DATA: So Lal now possesses the sum of my
programming. 
HAFTEL: Her neural nets are laid down identically to yours? 
DATA: There do seem to be some variations on the quantum level. She can
use contractions. I cannot. 
HAFTEL: An aberration. What have you done about this? 
DATA: I have maintained records on positronic matrix activity,
behavioral norms, and all verbal patterns. I have seen no evidence of
other aberrations. 
PICARD: It would seem you've actually improved upon yourself, Data. 
DATA: Is that not the goal of every parent, sir? 
HAFTEL: But as a good father, don't you think it would be better,
especially in light of this new aberration, if Lal were close to people
trained in diagnostic and evaluative procedures? 
DATA: I am programmed with the procedures you mention, sir. And in any
meaningful evaluation of Lal, you would require a model for a basis of
comparison. I am the only model available, Admiral. 
HAFTEL: You haven't mastered human cultural and behavioural norms
yourself yet, have you? 
DATA: No, sir. 
HAFTEL: Where is Lal now?

