LAL PICARD DATA HAFTEL [on monitor] BALLARD
admiration working isn high willing understand stand easy laughing

[Ready room]

PICARD: I assure you, Admiral, there's no better
guide into this life for Lal than Data. He's doing an excellent job. 
HAFTEL [on monitor]: We all have enormous admiration for what Commander
Data has already achieved, but we have superior facilities and
personnel here at Galor Four. A starship is hardly a proper setting 
PICARD: This starship's mission is to seek out new life and that is
exactly what Commander Data is doing, under my guidance. 
HAFTEL [on monitor]: We all want what's best for the new android. 
PICARD: As do I. I would be willing to consider releasing Lal and Data
to you so that he may continue his work with her. 
HAFTEL [on monitor]: His presence would undoubtedly retard the new
android's progress. 
PICARD: Admiral, to you, Lal is a new android. But to Data, she's his
child. 
HAFTEL [on monitor]: His child? 
PICARD: Yes, Admiral. It may not be easy for you and I to see her that
way, but he does. And I respect that. They will remain here for now. 
HAFTEL [on monitor]: Starfleet's policy on research is clear. You're
making your stand on very uncertain ground. I do hope it doesn't fall
out from under you. Haftel out.

[Teacher's office]

BALLARD: She achieved a very high score on a test
of academic achievement. 
DATA: A perfect score? 
BALLARD: Yes, which is why we started her out with the older children.
But Lal couldn't understand the nuances of how they related to each
other. 
DATA: I see. 
BALLARD: We decided the best thing to do would be to put her with
younger children. 
DATA: That would seem to be reasonable. 
BALLARD: It isn't working out that way. 
(She shows him the classroom. Lal is standing by the wall while the
children are around a table together) 
BALLARD: The children were afraid of her.

[Turbolift]

LAL: Father, what is the significance of laughter? 
DATA: It is a human physiological response to humour. 
LAL: Then judging from their laughter, the children at school found my
remarks humorous. So without understanding humour, I have somehow
mastered it. 
DATA: Deck fifteen. Lal. 
LAL: Yes, Father? 
DATA: The children were not laughing with you, they were laughing at
you. 
LAL: Explain. 
DATA: One is meant kindly, the other is not. 
LAL: Why would they wish to be unkind? 
DATA: Because you are different. Differences sometimes scare people. I
have learned that some of them use humour to hide their fear. 
LAL: I do not want to be different.

