DURAS PICARD KAHLEST KMPEC WORF

[Street]

(Picard is jumped by two Klingons. He manages to
draw the dagger and stabs one of them. Kahlest gets the other one in
the back) 
PICARD: My appreciation, madam. 
KAHLEST: You are brave, cha'DIch. Worf chose well. 
PICARD: Kahlest, would they recognise you? Would they know who your
are? 
KAHLEST: K'mpec would remember Kahlest. I caught his eye back then, but
he was too fat. 
PICARD: Come back with me. They won't know how much you know. You may
shake loose the truth. 
KAHLEST: I will come.

[Great Hall]

DURAS: The evidence is clear. I would ask that the
judgment stand. That Worf be condemned as the son of a traitor to the
Empire. 
K'MPEC: Worf, son of Mogh, the judgement of 
PICARD: K'mpec! 
(Picard enters with Kahlest) 
PICARD: The Mek'ba is not complete. I bring an eyewitness to the
Khitomer massacre, one who has new evidence, K'mpec. 
KAHLEST: Mogh was innocent. 
K'MPEC: Len'mat.

[K'mpec's Chamber]

DURAS: What is it you think you know, old woman? 
PICARD: Do not answer. It is the rule of the Mek'ba that evidence be
presented in open council. 
DURAS: She will die before she gives evidence. 
K'MPEC: Be silent, Duras. Would you kill an old women to cover your
dishonour? 
PICARD: Yes. It is your dishonour we are protecting here, isn't it,
Duras? 
DURAS: I have no reluctance to kill you, human. 
PICARD: Are you prepared to hear her evidence in open council? 
K'MPEC: Obviously, we would not. Kahlest, you can go now. It is good to
see you again. 
KAHLEST: You are still fat, K'mpec. 
(Kahlest leaves) 
K'MPEC: I asked you to leave, to let this challenge go unanswered, but
you did not hear my words. And now it's come to this. 
WORF: Why did you judge my father guilty when you knew he was not? 
K'MPEC: Someone had to be blamed. The warriors who captured the Romulan
ship had learned of the treachery, but only the Council knew whose
security code had been transmitted. Ja'rod, father of Duras. 
WORF: This ha'DIbaH should have been fed to the dogs! 
K'MPEC: His family is powerful. If the truth were known, it would
shatter the Council, most certainly plunge us into civil war. You were
in Starfleet. We did not expect you to challenge the judgment, nor did
we know there was another son of Mogh. 
PICARD: Worf's challenge is successful. The honour of his family must
be restored. 
K'MPEC: You do not understand. His challenge was defeated before he
ever made it. You will not be allowed to present this evidence. The
judgment stands. You will be condemned. So will your brother. There is
no other way now. 
PICARD: You admit the truth and yet expect him to accept punishment?
What does this say of an Empire who holds honour so dear? 
K'MPEC: The Empire will not be destroyed for one family's honour. 
PICARD: Unacceptable, K'mpec. 
DURAS: You have no say in this, cha'DIch! 
PICARD: I speak now as the Captain of the USS Enterprise and Lieutenant
Worf's commanding officer. You will not execute
a member of my crew, nor will I turn his brother over to you. 
K'MPEC: This is not the Federation, Picard. If you defy an order of the
High Council, the alliance with the Federation could fall to dust. 
PICARD: The alliance with the Federation is not based on lies, K'mpec!
Protect your secrets if you must, but you will not sacrifice these men.

WORF: I will die for the Empire. 
PICARD: Lieutenant. 
WORF: The cha'DIch will be silent. Allow my brother to return to his
life. Only you need know his true bloodline. 
DURAS: Not acceptable. His honour would demand revenge. 
WORF: If you allow him to live, I will give you something that will
serve your purpose far more than my death. I will accept
discommendation. 
DURAS: You would do this in open council? 
K'MPEC: It would be the same as admitting your father's guilt, Worf. 
WORF: So be it. 
K'MPEC: Your heart is Klingon. It will be done. What has been said here
will never be spoken of again. 
WORF: You are the son of a traitor. 
(Worf slaps Duras' face) 
WORF: Now I am ready.

