KURN TROI LAFORGE WORF PICARD RIKER CRUSHER DATA

[Captain's Mess]

(Picard is carving a roast turkey for the buffet) 
KURN: How long has the bird been dead? It appears to have been lying in
the sun for quite some time. 
LAFORGE: It's not dead, it's been replicated. You do understand that we
cook most of our foods. 
KURN: Ah, yes. I was told to prepare for that. I shall try some of your
burned replicated bird meat. 
(He rips off a leg and plonks it on his plate) 
PICARD: I have attempted to select a menu that will allow you to sample
a variety of dishes, Commander. 
CRUSHER: Try some caviar. 
KURN: The odour is not palatable. What is it? 
DATA: The unhatched eggs of a large scaleless 
PICARD: Later, Data. A fish, Commander. A delicacy from the Caspian Sea
on Earth It's a favourite of mine. Our replicator's never done it
justice, but I managed to store a few cases for special occasions. 
KURN: I am honoured, Captain. 
(They all sit round the table) 
TROI: Are you adjusting to your new environment, Commander? 
(Kurn starts eating. No one else is) 
KURN: I find the constraints a bit difficult to conform to. Just a
short while ago, I had to stop myself from killing Commander Riker. I
believe he was trying to communicate the crew's sense of discomfort
with my style of command. Under different circumstances, I would
consider that a challenge to my authority. 
PICARD: One of the aims of the exchange programme, Commander, is for
all of us to learn tolerance. As for my crew, it may be healthy to
shake up the status quo occasionally. 
RIKER: The Commander certainly appears to have the crew on its toes 
LAFORGE: And then some. No offence, sir. 
KURN: None taken. I never kill anyone at the supper table, Mister La
Forge. 
CRUSHER: Don't you like it, Commander? 
KURN: Our food has much more taste to it. While I'm sure this is well
prepared, it is far too bland for the stomach of a Klingon. 
LAFORGE: It seems to agree with Worf. 
KURN: Yes.

[Kurn's quarters]

KURN: Enter. 
(Worf is at the door) 
KURN: 'el. 
WORF: Permission to speak freely, sir? 
KURN: For what purpose? 
WORF: I have questions I wish to pose. 
KURN: Are your quarters so comfortable? 
WORF: They serve me. 
KURN: This entire ship seems built on comfort, relaxation, being at
ease. It is not the ship of a warrior, not the ship of a Klingon. You
cannot ask these questions within the boundaries of protocol? 
WORF: They are of a personal nature, sir. 
KURN: Permission granted. Pose your questions. 
WORF: I wish to know if I have given you offence. 
KURN: I am not human. If you had given offence, you would not need to
ask. 
WORF: Perhaps I have not performed my duties to your satisfaction? 
KURN: I find you to be a capable Starfleet officer. A credit to your
ship. 
WORF: Yet you dishonour me at every opportunity. 
KURN: Have I? I did not know that being polite to a Starfleet officer
would bring dishonour on him. 
WORF: I am a Klingon. 
KURN: Really? Perhaps your blood has thinned in this environment. I
simply don't want to hurt you. 
(Worf throws a chair across the room in rage) 
KURN: mev yap! So your blood is not so thin after all. 
WORF: I am a Klingon! if you doubt it, a demonstration can be arranged.

KURN: That is the response of a Klingon. The response I would expect
from my older brother. 
(collective gasps and a quick advert break) 
KURN: I was barely a year old when you left for the Khitomer Outpost.
You, our mother and father were not going to stay long. It was decided
that I did not need to go. I was left to stay with our father's friend,
Lorgh, until you returned. You never did. 
WORF: The Starfleet officer that rescued me was told by the Klingon
High Command that I had no living relatives. 
KURN: They assumed that I was killed with the family at Khitomer. Lorgh
had no sons. He took me into his family. It was not until I had reached
the Age of Ascension that I was told the truth. 
WORF: So you asked to serve aboard the Enterprise to watch me. 
KURN: It was an excellent opportunity to see what kind of Klingon you
were, or if you were Klingon at all. 
WORF: Your deception offends me, brother. 
KURN: It should. But it was required. 
WORF: To satisfy your curiosity. 
KURN: No. Much more. You are the eldest son. The challenge is yours to
make. 
WORF: Challenge? 
KURN: The Klingon High Council has judged our father a traitor to the
Empire.

[Ready room]

PICARD: What are the allegations, Worf? 
WORF: My father is accused of aiding and abetting the Romulan attack on
the Khitomer outpost. 
PICARD: The attack in which he himself was killed? But why now, after
twenty years? 
WORF: I do not know, Captain. I will hear the evidence when I arrive.
The charge has been made by Duras, the son of my father's greatest
rival. Our family name will be disgraced for seven generations. It is
my responsibility to clear his name or answer for his crimes. 
PICARD: Answer for them? 
WORF: The family of a Klingon warrior is responsible for his actions
and he is responsible for theirs. If I fail in my challenge, I will be
executed. Will you grant my leave, Captain? 
PICARD: No. If I understand correctly, a Starfleet officer, a respected
member of my crew, could be accused of a capital crime. Your actions in
this matter will reflect on this ship and on the Federation. Therefore,
it seems only appropriate that your captain should be at your side
while you make your challenge. I'm sure you would do no less for me. 
