RIKER K'MPEC WORF DURAS PICARD CRUSHER
don room permission alive baton lies understand abandon crew

[Ready room]

PICARD: I do not pretend to fully understand the
nuances of your world's law or culture, Lieutenant, but I do understand
when somebody is trying to hide something. 
WORF: K'mpec urged me to drop my challenge, abandon my family honour.
It was impossible to believe I was hearing a Klingon speak 
PICARD: Obviously, they did not expect and never wanted this challenge.
You're getting close to something, Lieutenant. Something they care a
great deal about protecting. 
WORF: If it is true, it is not just Duras but the High Council itself
that is my enemy. Captain, I must choose another cha'DIch. I would like
your permission to ask one of the crew. 
PICARD: Well of course, Lieutenant. Choose whomever you wish. 
WORF: Then I would ask you to stand with me. You may refuse with no
dishonour. 
PICARD: Thank you, Lieutenant. I appreciate the gesture, but I know
that there are stronger and younger men from whom to choose. 
WORF: I can think of no one I would rather have at my side. 
PICARD: jIlajneS. ghIj qet jaghmeyjaj. I accept.

[Great Hall]

WORF: My challenge will proceed. No threats, no
treachery will stop it. Not even a trap set for my cha'DIch by a
coward. 
K'MPEC: Duras! 
DURAS: I will not hear lies from the son of a traitor. 
(Picard steps between Worf and Duras) 
DURAS: Keep your place, Picard! 
PICARD: This is my place. 
WORF: He is now my cha'DIch. 
DURAS: This is not your world, human. You do not command here. 
PICARD: I'm not here to command. 
DURAS: Then you must be ready to fight. Something that Starfleet
doesn't teach you. 
PICARD: You may test that assumption at your convenience. 
(He is handed the ceremonial baton or whatever it is) 
[Bridge]

CRUSHER: I've got something. Worf was not the only
survivor of the Khitomer massacre. 
RIKER: Another child? 
CRUSHER: No. A Klingon woman was found with Worf. 
(She calls up the record on a monitor) 
RIKER: Kahlest. Who was she? 
CRUSHER: I don't know, but the report said she was severely injured,
was transferred to Starbase twenty four for treatment. That was when
she was separated from Worf. And after her recovery, she returned home.

RIKER: We've got to find her, if she's still alive. Data, scan the
Klingon central net. See if there's any record of her.

