KURN PICARD WORF

[Ready room]

PICARD: What are the allegations, Worf? 
WORF: My father is accused of aiding and abetting the Romulan attack on
the Khitomer outpost. 
PICARD: The attack in which he himself was killed? But why now, after
twenty years? 
WORF: I do not know, Captain. I will hear the evidence when I arrive.
The charge has been made by Duras, the son of my father's greatest
rival. Our family name will be disgraced for seven generations. It is
my responsibility to clear his name or answer for his crimes. 
PICARD: Answer for them? 
WORF: The family of a Klingon warrior is responsible for his actions
and he is responsible for theirs. If I fail in my challenge, I will be
executed. Will you grant my leave, Captain? 
PICARD: No. If I understand correctly, a Starfleet officer, a respected
member of my crew, could be accused of a capital crime. Your actions in
this matter will reflect on this ship and on the Federation. Therefore,
it seems only appropriate that your captain should be at your side
while you make your challenge. I'm sure you would do no less for me. 
[Bridge]

PICARD: Commander Kurn 
KURN: Sir. 
PICARD: We're changing course. Set coordinates for the First City of
the Klingon Imperial Empire. 
[Ten Forward]

KURN: We arrive within the hour. 
WORF: Yes. 
KURN: The Council will receive you at high sun in the Great Hall of 
WORF: I know the procedure for the challenge. 
KURN: You'll need a cha'DIch to defend you. While you are accused, you
will not be allowed combat. I would be honoured if you chose me. 
WORF: I ask you to stand with me, to be my cha'DIch. 
KURN: jIlajneS. ghIj qet jaghmeyjaj. The two sons of Mogh. Together, we
will restore the family honour. 
WORF: No. For the proceeding, you will not reveal your true father. 
KURN: I must. 
WORF: You will not. 
KURN: Because it would mean my death as well if you fail? A Klingon's
honour means more to him than his life. Perhaps your human values have
clouded your judgment. I insist. 
WORF: On this ship, you are my commander, and I obey. In Council
chamber, you are my cha'DIch. You do not insist. You obey. 
KURN: Yes, brother.

