RIKER K'MPEC LAFORGE WORF DURAS PICARD DATA
bridge look teach urged discovered understand council ship ceremonial

[Bridge]

DATA: Commander, I have discovered the basis of the
charges against Worf's father. Apparently the Klingons recently
captured a Romulan ship with logs that provided new information on the
Khitomer attack. They clearly indicate a transmission from the outpost
to the Romulan ship moments before the shields went down. 
LAFORGE: From Worf's father? 
DATA: They do correspond to Mogh's personal security code. 
RIKER: How can we be sure these records haven't been falsified? 
LAFORGE: We can cross check them against the Intrepid's sensor logs. 
DATA: I will try, but the Intrepid was at the edge of sensor range
during the attack and we cannot be sure if the scan was complete. 
LAFORGE: Looks like a pretty good match-up, Data 
DATA: Both the Intrepid and Romulan logs show a series of distress
signals from Khitomer. 
RIKER: What happened there. 
LAFORGE: Those are gaps in the Intrepid's logs. Missing information due
to the range. 
DATA: That is where Mogh's alleged transmission should be. 
RIKER: Right in the middle of the gap? 
LAFORGE: Wait a second, Data. Back up. Just before the Intrepid's gap
begins, the timebase of both files are in perfect sync. But look. Look
at what happens to the signal after the shields are dropped. 
DATA: They are no longer synchronous. 
LAFORGE: Commander, somebody's been rewriting history.

[Ready room]

PICARD: I do not pretend to fully understand the
nuances of your world's law or culture, Lieutenant, but I do understand
when somebody is trying to hide something. 
WORF: K'mpec urged me to drop my challenge, abandon my family honour.
It was impossible to believe I was hearing a Klingon speak 
PICARD: Obviously, they did not expect and never wanted this challenge.
You're getting close to something, Lieutenant. Something they care a
great deal about protecting. 
WORF: If it is true, it is not just Duras but the High Council itself
that is my enemy. Captain, I must choose another cha'DIch. I would like
your permission to ask one of the crew. 
PICARD: Well of course, Lieutenant. Choose whomever you wish. 
WORF: Then I would ask you to stand with me. You may refuse with no
dishonour. 
PICARD: Thank you, Lieutenant. I appreciate the gesture, but I know
that there are stronger and younger men from whom to choose. 
WORF: I can think of no one I would rather have at my side. 
PICARD: jIlajneS. ghIj qet jaghmeyjaj. I accept.

[Great Hall]

WORF: My challenge will proceed. No threats, no
treachery will stop it. Not even a trap set for my cha'DIch by a
coward. 
K'MPEC: Duras! 
DURAS: I will not hear lies from the son of a traitor. 
(Picard steps between Worf and Duras) 
DURAS: Keep your place, Picard! 
PICARD: This is my place. 
WORF: He is now my cha'DIch. 
DURAS: This is not your world, human. You do not command here. 
PICARD: I'm not here to command. 
DURAS: Then you must be ready to fight. Something that Starfleet
doesn't teach you. 
PICARD: You may test that assumption at your convenience. 
(He is handed the ceremonial baton or whatever it is) 
