KURN WORF DURAS PICARD KMPEC COMPUTER

[Great Hall]

(Everything is done by shouting here) 
WORF: I am Worf, son of Mogh. I have come to challenge the lies that
have been spoken of my father. 
K'MPEC: Worf, son of Mogh, you have challenged the judgment of the
council. Are you prepared to answer for this if you fail? 
WORF: Yes. With my life. 
K'MPEC: Why do you come before us, Commander? 
KURN: I am Kurn, son of Lorgh. I will stand by Worf's side. I am
cha'DIch. 
(He is handed a ceremonial something) 
DURAS: You claim a birthright you have forsaken? 
WORF: I have not forsaken my heritage. I am Klingon. My heart is of
this world. My blood is as yours. 
DURAS: Yet you come to us wearing a child's uniform, and you bring
outsiders to our Great Hall. 
PICARD: I am here at my own request. I am Captain Jean-Luc Picard of
the Enterprise. 
DURAS: Your words mean nothing here. 
K'MPEC: Duras, let him speak. 
PICARD: Lieutenant Worf has served under my command with distinction.
He has earned my admiration and my respect. It is my greatest wish that
this Council, in its wisdom, will clear his family name and return him
to duty. 
K'MPEC: The trust of a commanding officer is admirable. The council has
noted it. Speak the accusation. 
DURAS: For many turns, the truth about Khitomer has lain dormant.
Unknown. Now the truth has been revealed. The traitor Mogh sent the
defence access codes to the Romulan patrol ships, allowing them to
destroy the outpost. Thousands died on Khitomer. My father died on
Khitomer. Their deaths must be avenged. Your father was a traitor. By
posing this challenge, you are a traitor. 
(Duras tears off Worf's baldric) 
DURAS: You will not wear the emblems of our people. You are a fool and
your challenge can only result in a fool's death. 
WORF: It is a good day to die, Duras, and the day is not yet over. 
K'MPEC: The council stands in recess. We will return for the Mek'ba,
when the evidence will be presented. Qapla' 
[Bridge]

PICARD: Mister Data, find out everything you can
about the destruction of the Khitomer outpost. Cross reference with
Romulan tactics and strategic information on the region, and request
access to the Klingon central information net. Computer, presentation
overview of Klingon custom and law pertaining to familial
accountability. 
COMPUTER: Accessing. 
PICARD: In my ready room. 
[Great Hall]

(in a side colonnade) 
K'MPEC: Worf. I would speak with you. Alone. 
(Kurn leaves them and is handed a message by a woman. He leaves) 
K'MPEC: You should not have brought the challenge. There was no risk to
you. What does it matter? 
WORF: I am Klingon. 
K'MPEC: Of that I have no question. But your life in the Federation
would not be affected by this judgement. 
WORF: My father 
K'MPEC: Is dead. He died long ago. I knew your father, served with him.
This is not how I wanted to remember him. We must let the past be and
protect what we have now. If you leave before the Mek'ba, no shame will
come on you. Return to your ship. Go back to your life. The challenge
will be forgotten. 
WORF: Why would you ask me to lay aside the honour of my father, my
family? Are these the words of the council? 
K'MPEC: I will not be questioned by you! Leave, now, or you too will be
condemned as a traitor.

