KURN RIKER LAFORGE PICARD TROI CRUSHER DATA
troi consider quite bland unhatched systems cook burned quo

[Turbolift]

RIKER: Commander. Captain's mess? 
KURN: Yes. 
RIKER: Resume. 
RIKER: Your knowledge of our systems and procedures is very impressive,
Sir. I would like to make one suggestion, sir. 
KURN: A suggestion? 
RIKER: When I served aboard the Pagh, the hardest part for me was
recognising and adapting to the demands of the crew. They needed an
iron hand. I imagine it must be very difficult for you to work with a
crew that is so different. I would be happy to guide you in that
regard, if it would be helpful. 
KURN: No, Commander. It wouldn't. 
[Corridor]

RIKER: This is not a Klingon ship, sir. 
KURN: No, Commander, it is not. If it were a Klingon ship, I would have
killed you for offering your suggestion.

[Captain's Mess]

(Picard is carving a roast turkey for the buffet) 
KURN: How long has the bird been dead? It appears to have been lying in
the sun for quite some time. 
LAFORGE: It's not dead, it's been replicated. You do understand that we
cook most of our foods. 
KURN: Ah, yes. I was told to prepare for that. I shall try some of your
burned replicated bird meat. 
(He rips off a leg and plonks it on his plate) 
PICARD: I have attempted to select a menu that will allow you to sample
a variety of dishes, Commander. 
CRUSHER: Try some caviar. 
KURN: The odour is not palatable. What is it? 
DATA: The unhatched eggs of a large scaleless 
PICARD: Later, Data. A fish, Commander. A delicacy from the Caspian Sea
on Earth It's a favourite of mine. Our replicator's never done it
justice, but I managed to store a few cases for special occasions. 
KURN: I am honoured, Captain. 
(They all sit round the table) 
TROI: Are you adjusting to your new environment, Commander? 
(Kurn starts eating. No one else is) 
KURN: I find the constraints a bit difficult to conform to. Just a
short while ago, I had to stop myself from killing Commander Riker. I
believe he was trying to communicate the crew's sense of discomfort
with my style of command. Under different circumstances, I would
consider that a challenge to my authority. 
PICARD: One of the aims of the exchange programme, Commander, is for
all of us to learn tolerance. As for my crew, it may be healthy to
shake up the status quo occasionally. 
RIKER: The Commander certainly appears to have the crew on its toes 
LAFORGE: And then some. No offence, sir. 
KURN: None taken. I never kill anyone at the supper table, Mister La
Forge. 
CRUSHER: Don't you like it, Commander? 
KURN: Our food has much more taste to it. While I'm sure this is well
prepared, it is far too bland for the stomach of a Klingon. 
LAFORGE: It seems to agree with Worf. 
KURN: Yes.

