HARO RIKER WORF PICARD THOLL DATA

[Picard's quarters]

(Picard is relaxing on a comfortable lounger. He
puts his book down, closes his eyes, and we see a slab hovering over
him. It scans him, then he disappears in a twinkle of lights)

[Bridge]

DATA: Commander, ship's sensors detect an abnormal
energy reading in the Captain's quarters. 
RIKER: Type? 
DATA: Undetermined. 
RIKER: Riker to Captain Picard. 
WORF: Security team to Captain's quarters.

[Holding cell]

(Picard wakes up in a hexagonal room with a thing
in the middle. There are a total of four beds, two more of which are
occupied) 
PICARD: Picard to Enterprise. Anyone receiving this transmission,
please respond.

[Outside Picard's quarters]

WORF: Security override. Priority one. 
(The door opens to reveal - Picard holding his book and a glass of
brandy) 
PICARD 2: Is something the matter, Lieutenant?

[Holding cell]

(One of the other bed occupants is also in a
Starfleet engineering uniform. she is a green-tinged alien) 
PICARD: It's all right, it's al right. I'm not going to hurt you. 
HARO: Captain. 
PICARD: Picard, of the Enterprise. 
HARO: Captain Picard. We studied your missions at the Academy Mitena
Haro, first year cadet, Starfleet Academy. 
PICARD: Cadet Haro. 
THOLL: Perhaps you can explain what this is all about. 
(A tall, white-skinned alien wearing a hood) 
PICARD: Unfortunately, I can't, Mister 
THOLL: Tholl. Kova Tholl, of Mizar Two. 
PICARD: Well, Mister Tholl, all I know is that I've been brought here
against my will. Wherever here is. 
HARO: The same thing happened to me, sir. I was alone, studying and I
fainted. When I came to, it was about three days ago. 
PICARD: And you, sir? 
THOLL: I've been here twelve days, possibly more. I had been meditating
privately and for no reason whatever, I lost
consciousness. 
PICARD: What can you tell me about our captors? 
THOLL: Nothing. They've never shown themselves. 
PICARD: Four sleeping areas. That implies we may be joined by another
captive. 
(He goes to the central thing, which dispenses red roundels) 
THOLL: It's edible, but I wouldn't call it food. 
(Picard takes a tentative bite and puts it down, then goes to the panel
by the door) 
THOLL: I wouldn't touch that. 
PICARD: Why not? 
THOLL: If it's the door lock, the combination's too complex to hit at
random. I tried it and was punished. 
PICARD: Punished? How? 
THOLL: Severe pain. Some sort of energy beam. I won't get near that
panel again. 
