HARO RIKER PICARD ALIEN WESLEY ESOQQ THOLL DATA

[Bridge]

PICARD 2: Helm take us in to twenty million
kilometres. 
WESLEY: Aye, sir. 
RIKER: Mister Worf, divert enough power to the shields to offset the
increased radiation and magnetic fields. 
DATA: Sir, at twenty million kilometres, our shields will only be
effective for eighteen minutes. 
PICARD 2: Noted, Mister Data. 
RIKER: Captain, may I have a word with you? 
PICARD 2: You have the Bridge, Mister Data. 
DATA: Aye, sir.

[Ready room]

RIKER: What is our mission? 
PICARD 2: I'm under no obligation to tell you that. 
RIKER: If you don't, you force me to take command of this vessel. 
PICARD 2: On what grounds? 
RIKER: You are endangering this ship for no reason. 
PICARD 2: No reason you're aware of. 
RIKER: That's not good enough. Your behaviour has been erratic. 
PICARD 2: Erratic enough to justify mutiny? Do you honestly believe you
have sufficient evidence to convince a board of inquiry? 
RIKER: No, I don't. But I can't let you risk the lives of this crew. 
PICARD 2: Number One, has it occurred to you that you might be the one
with the problem? I'm aware you've been under stress, and I am willing
to let the matter drop if you will report to Sickbay for a full
examination. Otherwise, I will have to relieve you from duty. Think
about it.

[Holding cell]

(Esoqq hands over his vicious knife to Picard, for
use as a tool. He shorts out a power line) 
PICARD: Cadet. 
(Haro gets the door to open slightly) 
HARO: I may have overloaded it, sir. 
(Picard and Esoqq try to prise the doors further apart) 
PICARD: Mister Tholl! 
THOLL: I still think this is a mistake. 
(Finally the door opens - onto a blank wall) 
THOLL: Now what? We're no better off than when we started.

[Bridge]

DATA: Captain, number four shield has failed.
Increasing power to number three shield to compensate. 
PICARD 2: Helm, move us closer. Ten million kilometres. 
DATA: Sir, at that distance, the ship will not withstand the magnetic
fields and radiation. We will not survive. 
PICARD 2: Take us in, Mister Crusher. 
RIKER: Belay that order. 
PICARD 2: You're relieved of duty, Commander. Mister Worf, confine
Mister Riker to his quarters. 
(Worf stands still and puts his hands behind his back) 
PICARD 2: Mister Worf, I gave you an order. 
RIKER: Maintain your position, Lieutenant. 
PICARD 2: You're destroying yourself and anyone who is foolish enough
to listen to you. 
RIKER: You've shown none of the concern that Captain Picard would for
the safety of his ship, the welfare of his crew. 
PICARD 2: Mister Worf, escort Commander Riker from the Bridge. 
RIKER: Ensign Crusher, take us away from this pulsar. Heading one eight
five mark three two. Full impulse. 
WESLEY: Full impulse. Aye, Commander. 
RIKER: Engage.

[Holding cell]

THOLL: I hope you're satisfied, Picard. You've
accomplished nothing. 
ESOQQ: The sound of your voice is beginning to anger me. 
PICARD: Well, I think this charade has gone far enough. (to Haro) Don't
you? 
HARO: I don't understand. 
PICARD: Oh yes, you do. This isn't a holding cell. It's a laboratory
maze, a carefully structured test. It's an experiment to see how well
we react under pressure. 
ESOQQ: How do you know? 
PICARD: It's the only explanation. Look at the four of us. We do have
something in common. We all react differently to authority. You, the
collaborator, defer to whoever has control. You, the anarchist, reject
authority in any form. I, a Starfleet Captain, trained to command. And
you, a Starfleet cadet, sworn to obey a superior officer's authority.
Our captors have placed us here and have devised obstacles for us to
overcome. They give us food which Esoqq can't eat, to make him a
threat. They give us a door we can't open until the four of us
co-operate. And each time we succeed, they deal us reverses to set us
against each other again, while you observe our reactions. 
HARO: Sir, I've been trying to help. 
PICARD: I found it unlikely that a first year cadet would know of the
Enterprise's visit to Mintaka Three, so I tested you. Starfleet has
classified the Cor Caroli Five plague as secret. No cadet would have
knowledge of that incident. 
HARO: Captain. 
PICARD: So you may as well drop this pretence. I'm not playing any
further. I'm quitting the game. As far as I am concerned, this
experiment is over! 
HARO: You are correct, Captain Picard. 
(And she morphs into three balls of light which then become three
identical aliens with the same voice) 
ALIEN 1: To further our knowledge of alien interaction, we borrowed
you, Tholl, and Esoqq, and replaced you with replicas. 
ESOQQ: Replicas? 
ALIEN 2: Our transporter is able to replicate living matter, including
the brain's many trillion dendritic connections where memory is stored.

THOLL: You mean there's a copy of me on Mizar Two? 
PICARD: An impostor running my ship. 
ALIEN 2: No longer. Commander Riker has taken charge of the Enterprise.

ALIEN 1: Our species is telepathically linked. We are all in continual
contact. 
ALIEN 2: Much more efficient than your primitive vocal communications. 
ALIEN 1: We would like to pursue this study, but of course your
awareness of it would taint the results. 
ALIEN 2: We will therefore return you to your places of origin.

