HARO RIKER LAFORGE WORF PICARD TROI ESOQQ THOLL CRUSHER DATA

[Holding cell]

THOLL: Picard is it wise to attempt an escape? 
PICARD: It's imperative. 
THOLL: Why? Our captors haven't mistreated us. 
HARO: We've been kidnapped, locked in a room. You don't think that's
mistreatment? 
THOLL: They haven't hurt us, have they? I think we should just wait
until we find out what they want. Be patient. 
PICARD: We can no longer afford to be patient. Unless we act soon,
Esoqq will starve. 
THOLL: If we antagonise them, they may decide we're more trouble than
we're worth, kill us and go capture another four. 
PICARD: I agree that's a risk, but I see no alternative. 
THOLL: Well, I refuse to help. 
PICARD: As you wish, Mister Tholl. We must get inside this panel. 
ESOQQ: Not very sturdy. 
PICARD: Stand back, Haro. 
(Esoqq puts his fist through the panel and rips the surround out of the
wall) 
HARO: The design is simple. Cross-circuiting the door mechanism should
be easy. 
PICARD: Make it so. 
HARO: Yes, sir. 
(She flips a few connections then reaches up inside the wall) 
HARO: I think I've got it. 
(The door opens an inch, closes again, then a green light hits the
three. They fall to the floor in pain) 
THOLL: I warned you. 
[Picard's quarters]

(Jean-Luc and Beverly have made it to the after
dinner drinks) 
CRUSHER: Out with it, Jean-Luc. 
PICARD 2: Out with what? 
CRUSHER: Whatever has been on your mind all evening long. 
PICARD 2: Has it been that apparent? How well you know me. 
CRUSHER: After all this time, I ought to. 
PICARD 2: Well, it's true, I have been preoccupied. I know that's not
very flattering to you, but I have been thinking about us. And about
the choices I've made. 
CRUSHER: We've both made choices. 
PICARD 2: And I've been wondering if they were the right ones.
Sometimes I feel we've allowed our positions to isolate us. 
CRUSHER: Our positions necessitate a degree of professional detachment.

PICARD 2: But there's a danger in becoming too detached, of never
permitting ourselves to get closer. 
CRUSHER: Is that what you want, Jean-Luc? To get closer? 
PICARD 2: You're a very attractive woman. 
CRUSHER: And you're a very attractive man. But we both know it's not as
simple as that. 
PICARD 2: Would it be simpler if I were not your commanding officer? 
CRUSHER: Simpler, perhaps, but that's not the only issue. I guess,
right now, I'm comfortable with our relationship just the way it is. 
PICARD 2: Would you care to dance? 
CRUSHER: I thought you didn't dance. 
PICARD 2: On special occasions. 
(He holds her close in a slow shuffle) 
PICARD 2: I don't think I told you, but I'm glad you're back on the
Enterprise. I missed our friendship. 
CRUSHER: I did too. 
(The dance become more of a vertical embrace, and then they kiss) 
CRUSHER: Jean-Luc, if I didn't know you better, I would think you were
playing games with me. 
PICARD 2: You're sorry you came tonight? 
CRUSHER: I didn't say that. 
PICARD 2: Good. Because I'm delighted you did. But, perhaps we should
call it a night. 
(He opens the door for her) 
PICARD 2: Goodnight.

[Holding cell]

THOLL: I warned you not to provoke our captors. The
next beams might be lethal. 
ESOQQ: Not to you. You moved far from the door. 
THOLL: Of course I did! Being stunned once was enough. 
ESOQQ: You claim you were hit by the stun beam before the rest of us
arrived. You could be lying. Maybe our enemy is watching us from
inside. 
THOLL: Are you accusing me of collaborating with our abductors? 
ESOQQ: Collaboration is what your species does best. 
HARO: You did try to talk us out of attempting to escape. 
ESOQQ: For all we know, you may be our captor. 
THOLL: Impossible. I'm a Mizarian. My people are not aggressive. 
ESOQQ: How can we be sure you're a Mizarian? You could be an impostor. 
THOLL: This is nonsense. What if you're an impostor? Esoqq was the last
one to appear, and he is the only one with a weapon. 
ESOQQ: Keep talking and I will use it. 
PICARD: Tholl, our captors have transporters, they have stun beams. It
is hardly likely that they would try to hold us at bay with a knife. 
THOLL: Well, then, maybe she's an impostor. She could have triggered
the stun beams deliberately. 
HARO: I was hit, too. 
THOLL: To forestall suspicion. You were very quick to volunteer. 
PICARD: Tholl, I asked her to open the door. 
THOLL: You ordered her, you mean. You've been giving orders from the
moment you got here, trying to make everyone do what you want. 
PICARD: Tholl, what I want is for everyone to escape! 
ESOQQ: Why should we believe you? 
HARO: Captain Picard's put his life at stake for others many times. The
primitive culture on Mintaka Three, the Wogneer creatures in the Ordek
Nebula. 
(the penny has dropped for Picard) 
PICARD: And Cor Caroli Five. 
HARO: Right. Helping to cure the Phyrox Plague. 
ESOQQ: And how do we know this is the heroic Captain Picard? We have no
proof of his identity. 
THOLL: You've wasted our time with failed attempts to communicate with
them or escape. Is that your task? To keep us busy so we're off guard? 
First officer's log, supplemental. Although we're
still eighteen hours from the Lonka pulsar, the Captain has ordered us
to slow to one half impulse. He has offered no explanation.

[Ten Forward]

RIKER: I don't know why we're going to this pulsar.
And creeping up on it at half impulse makes even less sense. 
TROI: The Captain has given unusual orders before. 
RIKER: I know, but this is different. He's different. I can't put my
finger on it, but I'm worried. 
TROI: The Captain does seem detached from his emotions. 
(Picard enters and goes to the bar) 
PICARD 2: Mister La Forge. We are operating at ninety six percent
engine efficiency. Well done. 
LAFORGE: Thank you, sir. 
PICARD 2: When we arrive at the pulsar, I shall require everyone at
their best. I know that I can rely on both of you. 
WORF: Of course, Captain. 
PICARD 2: Excellent. An ale for me, and for my officers. In fact, ales
for everyone. 
(General ah's and thanks) 
PICARD 2: Here's to the finest crew in Starfleet. You know, back when I
was in the Academy, we would follow every toast with a song. I wonder
if I can,
oh, yes. 
(Clears his throat and starts to sing Hearts of Oaks) 
PICARD 2: Come cheer up my lads, 'Tis to glory we steer. To find
something new in this wonderful year. To honour we call you as free men
and brave. For who are so free as the sons of the waves? Hearts of Oak
are our ships, Jolly tars are our men. We always are ready. Steady,
boys, steady. We'll fight and we'll conquer again and again. 
(The verse is repeated with others joining in under the dialogue) 
LAFORGE: Commander, what's the Captain up to? 
RIKER: That's not the Captain I know.

[Riker's quarters]

RIKER: We're a mission that has no apparent
purpose. In itself, I can accept that. All of us can, because the
Captain says it's important and we trust him. Then he runs the crew
through efficiency drills for the first time in my tour of duty, but he
says we need them, so we need them, because we trust our Captain. But
we also have a captain singing drinking songs with his men. 
LAFORGE: A Captain who's come to the poker game for the first time. 
TROI: And he was very odd with me afterwards. He wanted me to warn him
if the crew started to lose confidence in him. 
RIKER: Any signs of mental stress or trauma? 
CRUSHER: He came in for a physical with no word from me. 
WORF: Anything unusual, Doctor? 
CRUSHER: Every test result identical to his last physical, which is
kind of unusual in itself, actually. 
RIKER: Almost as though he wanted to establish that there was nothing
wrong. 
CRUSHER: There was one other thing. He asked me to dinner in his cabin,
and it was a very unusual evening. 
RIKER: Which brings up a very serious possibility. What if there's an
outside influence at work here? 
TROI: I detect no evidence of telepathic coercion. 
DATA: Commander, there is still one fact we have not considered. The
abnormal energy reading in the Captain's quarters was never explained. 
WORF: It is not enough evidence to justify mutiny. 
RIKER: Nobody has suggested removing the Captain from command. Right
now, all we have are suspicions. Not enough to act upon. The next move
is his.

