HARO RIKER PICARD WESLEY THOLL DATA

[Holding cell]

THOLL: Well, Picard? Prove to us you're not the
enemy. 
PICARD: I can't. You're right, Mister Tholl. Any of us may be the
enemy. And there is no way to prove that we aren't. But until we set
aside our mutual fears and trust one another, we have no hope of
escape. 
HARO: But sir, how can we trust each other? 
THOLL: She's right. There may be an enemy among us. 
PICARD: And what if there is, Mister Tholl? Shall we continue accusing
one another until hostility leads to violence? Shall we allow our
suspicions to destroy us? Now, let's see if we can override this stun
mechanism. 
[Bridge]

PICARD 2: Helm take us in to twenty million
kilometres. 
WESLEY: Aye, sir. 
RIKER: Mister Worf, divert enough power to the shields to offset the
increased radiation and magnetic fields. 
DATA: Sir, at twenty million kilometres, our shields will only be
effective for eighteen minutes. 
PICARD 2: Noted, Mister Data. 
RIKER: Captain, may I have a word with you? 
PICARD 2: You have the Bridge, Mister Data. 
DATA: Aye, sir.

[Ready room]

RIKER: What is our mission? 
PICARD 2: I'm under no obligation to tell you that. 
RIKER: If you don't, you force me to take command of this vessel. 
PICARD 2: On what grounds? 
RIKER: You are endangering this ship for no reason. 
PICARD 2: No reason you're aware of. 
RIKER: That's not good enough. Your behaviour has been erratic. 
PICARD 2: Erratic enough to justify mutiny? Do you honestly believe you
have sufficient evidence to convince a board of inquiry? 
RIKER: No, I don't. But I can't let you risk the lives of this crew. 
PICARD 2: Number One, has it occurred to you that you might be the one
with the problem? I'm aware you've been under stress, and I am willing
to let the matter drop if you will report to Sickbay for a full
examination. Otherwise, I will have to relieve you from duty. Think
about it.

[Holding cell]

(Esoqq hands over his vicious knife to Picard, for
use as a tool. He shorts out a power line) 
PICARD: Cadet. 
(Haro gets the door to open slightly) 
HARO: I may have overloaded it, sir. 
(Picard and Esoqq try to prise the doors further apart) 
PICARD: Mister Tholl! 
THOLL: I still think this is a mistake. 
(Finally the door opens - onto a blank wall) 
THOLL: Now what? We're no better off than when we started.

[Bridge]

DATA: Captain, number four shield has failed.
Increasing power to number three shield to compensate. 
PICARD 2: Helm, move us closer. Ten million kilometres. 
DATA: Sir, at that distance, the ship will not withstand the magnetic
fields and radiation. We will not survive. 
PICARD 2: Take us in, Mister Crusher. 
RIKER: Belay that order. 
PICARD 2: You're relieved of duty, Commander. Mister Worf, confine
Mister Riker to his quarters. 
(Worf stands still and puts his hands behind his back) 
PICARD 2: Mister Worf, I gave you an order. 
RIKER: Maintain your position, Lieutenant. 
PICARD 2: You're destroying yourself and anyone who is foolish enough
to listen to you. 
RIKER: You've shown none of the concern that Captain Picard would for
the safety of his ship, the welfare of his crew. 
PICARD 2: Mister Worf, escort Commander Riker from the Bridge. 
RIKER: Ensign Crusher, take us away from this pulsar. Heading one eight
five mark three two. Full impulse. 
WESLEY: Full impulse. Aye, Commander. 
RIKER: Engage.

