PICARD VASH SOVAK
rucksack institute gun think stand making safer throws minute

[Vash's room]

PICARD: May I come in? 
VASH: Excuse the mess. Sovak has taken to searching my room
periodically. 
PICARD: Is this what he's looking for? 
(He holds up the disc) 
VASH: I'm sorry I had to hide it like that. I was afraid he'd start
searching me next. 
PICARD: This disc must contain some very valuable information. 
VASH: I doubt it's anything you'd be interested in. 
PICARD: Depends. 
VASH: On what? 
PICARD: On whether or not it has something to do with the Tox Uthat. 
VASH: Did Sovak tell you that? 
PICARD: Well, let's just say I've heard rumours that the Uthat is
located somewhere on Risa. 
VASH: Look, the last thing I need is a partner. 
PICARD: So it's true. 
VASH: Have a seat. I don't suppose you ever heard of Professor Samuel
Estragon? 
PICARD: Yes, as a matter of fact, I have. He spent half his life
searching for the Tox Uthat. 
VASH: I served as his personal assistant for the past five years.
Shortly before he died, he uncovered new data pinpointing its location.
And that disc contains his research notes and maps. 
PICARD: And you're continuing his work? 
VASH: Exactly. 
PICARD: With a Ferengi as an associate? 
VASH: Sovak and I are definitely not working together. 
PICARD: But the two of you are very well acquainted. 
VASH: Well, at times he aided the professor in his explorations.
Especially in situations that weren't quite ethical. 
PICARD: And now, with typical Ferengi logic, he's convinced that the
Tox Uthat belongs to him. 
VASH: All he cares about is selling it to the highest bidder. 
PICARD: Whereas you, of course, have a nobler purpose in mind. 
VASH: I told the professor I'd present it to the Daystrom Institute for
study. But first I have to find it. And that won't be easy with Sovak
watching me every minute. 
PICARD: I'll go in your place. 
VASH: And what about me? 
PICARD: You'll remain here. It's safer. 
VASH: Is that an order? 
PICARD: Absolutely. 
VASH: This isn't a starship, Jean-Luc. I don't follow orders. 
PICARD: Oh, I see. 
VASH: Besides, you'd never find it without me. The professor's notes
are in code. 
PICARD: From the moment I met you, I knew you were going to be trouble.

VASH: You look like a man who could handle trouble. 
PICARD: So, where exactly is the location? 
VASH: It's about twenty seven kilometres due east. There are some
subterranean caves there. That's where you'll find the Uthat. 
PICARD: I'll meet you in the lobby in fifteen minutes. Be punctual. Oh,
and I advise you to change your clothing. 
VASH: Jean-Luc. We're going to make a wonderful team.

[Resort lobby]

(Jodhpurs, boots, a ruck sack, makes Vash and
Picard stand out from everyone else) 
SOVAK: I expected such treachery. Did you think you could sneak away
from me so easily? 
((Sovak presses something into Picard's back and pushes them to a quiet
area) 
SOVAK: The disc. Where is it? 
PICARD: Didn't anyone tell you weapons aren't allowed on Risa? 
SOVAK: You're making a grave mistake putting your trust in this woman. 
VASH: It' be a worse mistake to trust you. 
SOVAK: Silence! Do you know how she acquired the disc in the first
place? 
VASH: Sovak! 
SOVAK: I paid her to steal it. But instead she betrayed me, and used my
money to make her way here. 
VASH: It didn't happen that way. 
SOVAK: She's a greedy and unscrupulous woman. A perfect mate for a
Ferengi. 
PICARD: You're becoming quite annoying, Sovak. 
SOVAK: As are you, human. Perhaps I should kill you and then take the
disc. 
VASH: No, wait. You can have it. 
(She throws her rucksack at Sovak, and Picard takes the gun from him
before punching him between the eyes. Vash
retrieves her rucksack, and Picard throws the gun into the flower bed)
VASH: See? I told you we'd make a wonderful team. 
PICARD: We've got long trip. 
