PICARD VASH AJUR BORATUS
invented hide pocket suppose came starship logic believe died

[Picard's room]

(Picard walks in on the two aliens scanning his
room) 
PICARD: What the hell are you doing in my room? 
AJUR: We are Vorgons. I am Ajur. This is Boratus. 
BORATUS: We come from the twenty seventh century. We travelled three
hundred years into the past to find you. 
PICARD: All right, let's assume for the moment I believe you, that you
are indeed from the future. What is it that you want from me? 
AJUR: Have you heard of the Tox Uthat? 
PICARD: What? I'm aware of the legend. It tells of a visitor from the
future who left behind a mysterious device known as the Tox Uthat. 
AJUR: Essentially that story is correct. 
PICARD: Then the Uthat actually exists? 
BORATUS: Yes. It was invented by a scientist named Kal Dano in the mid
twenty seventh century. The Uthat is a quantum phase inhibitor capable
of halting all nuclear reaction within a star. 
PICARD: But why bring such a powerful weapon into the past? 
BORATUS: Criminals attempted to steal the device, so he fled back to
the twenty second century where he hid it. Ajur and I were the security
team assigned to retrieve the Uthat.
PICARD: I gather you were unsuccessful. 
BORATUS: Yes. When we returned we began to search through the
historical records for some clue to the Uthat's fate. 
PICARD: And your search led you to me? 
AJUR: We came upon a brief account stating you had discovered an object
of unknown origin while vacationing on Risa. From its description, a
crystal cube that fits in the palm of the hand, we surmised it could
very well be the Tox Uthat. 
PICARD: I'm sorry to disappoint you, but I haven't found anything,
including peace, which is the only thing I'm looking for. 
BORATUS: You will find such a device, Captain. To us, it is already
part of history. 
PICARD: And if I do find it, what then? 
AJUR: You will give it to us immediately so that we may return with it.

PICARD: Well, the Uthat belongs to your time, not mine. 
(The aliens touch the sides of their heads, and vanish. Then Picard
discovers the disc Vash dropped into his pocket) 
[Vash's room]

PICARD: May I come in? 
VASH: Excuse the mess. Sovak has taken to searching my room
periodically. 
PICARD: Is this what he's looking for? 
(He holds up the disc) 
VASH: I'm sorry I had to hide it like that. I was afraid he'd start
searching me next. 
PICARD: This disc must contain some very valuable information. 
VASH: I doubt it's anything you'd be interested in. 
PICARD: Depends. 
VASH: On what? 
PICARD: On whether or not it has something to do with the Tox Uthat. 
VASH: Did Sovak tell you that? 
PICARD: Well, let's just say I've heard rumours that the Uthat is
located somewhere on Risa. 
VASH: Look, the last thing I need is a partner. 
PICARD: So it's true. 
VASH: Have a seat. I don't suppose you ever heard of Professor Samuel
Estragon? 
PICARD: Yes, as a matter of fact, I have. He spent half his life
searching for the Tox Uthat. 
VASH: I served as his personal assistant for the past five years.
Shortly before he died, he uncovered new data pinpointing its location.
And that disc contains his research notes and maps. 
PICARD: And you're continuing his work? 
VASH: Exactly. 
PICARD: With a Ferengi as an associate? 
VASH: Sovak and I are definitely not working together. 
PICARD: But the two of you are very well acquainted. 
VASH: Well, at times he aided the professor in his explorations.
Especially in situations that weren't quite ethical. 
PICARD: And now, with typical Ferengi logic, he's convinced that the
Tox Uthat belongs to him. 
VASH: All he cares about is selling it to the highest bidder. 
PICARD: Whereas you, of course, have a nobler purpose in mind. 
VASH: I told the professor I'd present it to the Daystrom Institute for
study. But first I have to find it. And that won't be easy with Sovak
watching me every minute. 
PICARD: I'll go in your place. 
VASH: And what about me? 
PICARD: You'll remain here. It's safer. 
VASH: Is that an order? 
PICARD: Absolutely. 
VASH: This isn't a starship, Jean-Luc. I don't follow orders. 
PICARD: Oh, I see. 
VASH: Besides, you'd never find it without me. The professor's notes
are in code. 
PICARD: From the moment I met you, I knew you were going to be trouble.

VASH: You look like a man who could handle trouble. 
PICARD: So, where exactly is the location? 
VASH: It's about twenty seven kilometres due east. There are some
subterranean caves there. That's where you'll find the Uthat. 
PICARD: I'll meet you in the lobby in fifteen minutes. Be punctual. Oh,
and I advise you to change your clothing. 
VASH: Jean-Luc. We're going to make a wonderful team.

