VASH PICARD RIKER AJUR BORATUS

[Picard's room]

RIKER [OC]: Enterprise to Captain Picard. 
PICARD: Picard here.

[Bridge]

PICARD [OC]: Go ahead, Commander. 
RIKER: We hope we're not interrupting anything important, Captain, but
we wanted to inform you that we have achieved orbit around Risa and
we're ready to beam you aboard at your convenience. 
[Picard's room]

PICARD: I'll be returning shortly, Commander. In
the interim, stand ready to initiate transporter code fourteen at my
signal. 
[Bridge]

RIKER: Transporter code fourteen? 
[Picard's room]

PICARD: You heard me, Number One. 
[Bridge]

RIKER: Yes, sir. 
[Picard's room]

PICARD: Picard out.

[Resort lobby]

PICARD: Leaving so soon? 
VASH: Jean-Luc. I was just about to come say goodbye. 
PICARD: Well then, I've saved you the bother. 
VASH: I want to put all this behind me as soon as possible. You
understand? 
PICARD: Of course. There's just one last thing you can do for me. 
VASH: Anything. 
PICARD: Tell me where you've hidden the Tox Uthat. 
VASH: That's not funny. 
PICARD: You never intended to burn that second disc. If you had, you
wouldn't have been so careless as to allow Sovak to salvage any of it.
You wanted him to follow us, so that he could see for himself that the
Uthat wasn't at the cave site. That was the only way he could be
convinced that your quest had been futile. 
VASH: But how could I have known the Uthat wasn't there? 
PICARD: Because you'd already been there once before, probably the
moment you arrived on the planet. That's when you found it. 
VASH: You're a man of many talents, Jean-Luc. 
(She picks up a Horga'hn and opens it's head) 
VASH: A piece of the future. 
(Picard takes the multi-faceted crystal) 
PICARD: A very dangerous piece. Were you really going to give this to
the Daystrom
Institute? 
VASH: Well, maybe not give it. Five years is a huge investment,
Jean-Luc. I deserve to make a reasonable profit. 
AJUR: Congratulations Picard. We knew you would not fail us. 
VASH: You're not going to just hand it over, are you? You didn't trust
me. What makes you think you can trust them? 
PICARD: I assume the Vorgons have proof to back up their claim. 
BORATUS: Our being here is proof enough. 
VASH: Wait a second, Vorgons? The professor's notes said it was two
Vorgons, a male and a female, who attempted to steal the Uthat in the
first place. For all we know it could be them. 
PICARD: You're going to have to prove that you are who you say you are.

AJUR: You yourself said, the Uthat belongs to the future. 
PICARD: But not necessarily to you. 
BORATUS: You will return what is ours. 
VASH: No! 
(Boratus uses an energy beam on her) 
PICARD: Enterprise. Code fourteen. Lock on present coordinates. Two
second delay. Mark! 
(He puts the crystal on the ground and goes to Vash. The crystal
explodes before Ajur can reach it)

PICARD: Are you all right? (to the aliens) Go. Return to your own time.
There's nothing for you here. 
BORATUS: History recorded that you destroyed the Uthat. 
AJUR: You have fulfilled your destiny all too well, Picard.

[Picard's room]

VASH: I don't suppose there are any openings for an
archaeologist aboard the Enterprise. 
PICARD: Somehow I doubt you'd find life aboard a starship suitable to
your taste. 
VASH: Probably not. I could never tolerate all that discipline. 
PICARD: So, what are your plans? 
VASH: I thought I might explore the ruins on Sarthong Five. 
PICARD: Unbelievable! You are out of your mind! The Sarthongians are
merciless to trespassers. 
VASH: Why, Jean-Luc, you really do care about me. 
PICARD: Promise me you will try and stay out of trouble. 
VASH: I always try. 
(They kiss) 
VASH: I wish we had more time together. 
PICARD: Perhaps we do. The Vorgons are time travellers. Now that they
know where and when the Uthat can be found, they may very well come
back and try for it again. 
VASH: So we may be doing this all over again? 
