SOVAK VASH AJUR BORATUS PICARD
story don excuse assume weapon tell records wasn discuss

[Resort lobby]

VASH: What did he tell you? I'm sure there wasn't a
bit of truth to it. 
SOVAK: And you said you didn't know her. 
PICARD: I don't. And I don't want to. 
SOVAK: Return the disc to me and all will be forgiven. 
VASH: The disc doesn't belong to you, Sovak. It never did. 
PICARD: It would seem you two have a lot to discuss. If you'll excuse
me. 
VASH: Jean-Luc, I'm sorry. Perhaps one day I could explain all this to
you later. 
(She slips something into his pocket) 
PICARD: Perhaps you can. 
(Picard leaves) 
SOVAK: I have a proposal I believe you'll find most interesting. 
VASH: Save your breath. 
SOVAK: I am willing to pay you your weight in gold in exchange for the
disc. Is that not a generous offer? 
(Vash leaves) 
SOVAK: I must have that woman.

[Picard's room]

(Picard walks in on the two aliens scanning his
room) 
PICARD: What the hell are you doing in my room? 
AJUR: We are Vorgons. I am Ajur. This is Boratus. 
BORATUS: We come from the twenty seventh century. We travelled three
hundred years into the past to find you. 
PICARD: All right, let's assume for the moment I believe you, that you
are indeed from the future. What is it that you want from me? 
AJUR: Have you heard of the Tox Uthat? 
PICARD: What? I'm aware of the legend. It tells of a visitor from the
future who left behind a mysterious device known as the Tox Uthat. 
AJUR: Essentially that story is correct. 
PICARD: Then the Uthat actually exists? 
BORATUS: Yes. It was invented by a scientist named Kal Dano in the mid
twenty seventh century. The Uthat is a quantum phase inhibitor capable
of halting all nuclear reaction within a star. 
PICARD: But why bring such a powerful weapon into the past? 
BORATUS: Criminals attempted to steal the device, so he fled back to
the twenty second century where he hid it. Ajur and I were the security
team assigned to retrieve the Uthat.
PICARD: I gather you were unsuccessful. 
BORATUS: Yes. When we returned we began to search through the
historical records for some clue to the Uthat's fate. 
PICARD: And your search led you to me? 
AJUR: We came upon a brief account stating you had discovered an object
of unknown origin while vacationing on Risa. From its description, a
crystal cube that fits in the palm of the hand, we surmised it could
very well be the Tox Uthat. 
PICARD: I'm sorry to disappoint you, but I haven't found anything,
including peace, which is the only thing I'm looking for. 
BORATUS: You will find such a device, Captain. To us, it is already
part of history. 
PICARD: And if I do find it, what then? 
AJUR: You will give it to us immediately so that we may return with it.

PICARD: Well, the Uthat belongs to your time, not mine. 
(The aliens touch the sides of their heads, and vanish. Then Picard
discovers the disc Vash dropped into his pocket) 
