PICARD VASH AJUR SOVAK
outer barely stop vacation game pair impossible sorry tell

[Cave]

(It's night. Frogs are singing and crickets are
chirping. The pair have made camp) 
PICARD: Have you calculated how much further we have to go? 
VASH: Another eleven kilometres. 
PICARD: We should stay here for the night. 
VASH: I was hoping you'd say that. 
PICARD: Actually, we've made better time than I expected. 
VASH: I'll take that as a compliment. 
PICARD: As it was intended. 
VASH: Jean-Luc, I'm afraid I haven't been totally honest with you. 
PICARD: Forgive me if I don't act surprised. 
VASH: Sovak did pay me to hand over the disc. 
PICARD: So you did steal it? 
VASH: It wasn't stealing. The professor had died. I had already devoted
five years of my life to tracking down the Uthat. 
PICARD: But you took Sovak's money. 
VASH: It was the only way I could afford to get to Risa. As for Sovak,
he got exactly what he deserved. 
PICARD: Well, any woman who can beat a Ferengi at his own game bears
watching. 
VASH: I'll take that as another compliment. I'm flattered. 
PICARD: Hmm. Well, we should get some sleep. 
VASH: You know Jean-Luc, it's lucky for you we met. If it wasn't for
me, you'd still be back there sitting in the sun, relaxing. 
PICARD: That happens to be why I came to Risa. 
VASH: I'm sure you hated every minute of it. That kind of vacation
isn't for a man like you. You need excitement. 
PICARD: Excitement? Spending in a damp cave? Chasing after something we
shall probably never find? 
VASH: You're enjoying yourself, aren't you? 
PICARD: Yes, 
VASH: I just wanted to hear you say it. 
PICARD: Good. Now, let's get some sleep. 
(They're sharing the bedding. Picard rolls over and takes all the
blanket with him. Vash tugs it back) 
VASH: I'll never forget that look on your face when you thought I was
offering you jamaharon. 
PICARD: Now that was a simple misunderstanding. 
VASH: You did seem a little disappointed when I turned you down. 
PICARD: You are outrageous. 
VASH: Thank you. You're pretty stimulating yourself. Don't you see,
we're a lot alike. That's probably why we get along so well. 
PICARD: You call this getting along? 
VASH: Fine. We don't get along. We're not getting along. 
PICARD: I didn't say that. 
VASH: No, if you want to believe we're not getting along, that's all
right with me. 
(Picard kisses her) 
VASH: Still think I'm trouble? 
PICARD: I'm sure of it.

[Cavern]

(a single entrance, almost circular with a nice
flat floor. There's the sound of running water) 
VASH: This is it. We've reached the end of our journey. 
PICARD: Do you have the exact location? 
VASH: Seven metres in from the opening along the wall. 
PICARD: That should make it about here. 
VASH: What the? 
PICARD: Something wrong? 
VASH: I can't get a reading on this. There must be starithium ore in
these rocks. 
PICARD: That leaves us but one alternative. 
(he gets out the spades) 
PICARD: Shall we? 
(They've barely started digging when the aliens beam in) 
VASH: Picard! 
PICARD: A little premature, aren't we? 
AJUR: We are to be witness to a great moment, Picard. 
VASH: Who the hell are they? 
PICARD: They are security officers from the twenty seventh century.
They're here to take back the Uthat. 
VASH: You knew about this and didn't say anything? 
PICARD: I'm sorry, Vash. Would you have brought me here if I had told
you? 
VASH: Probably not. 
PICARD: My point exactly. 
SOVAK: So the betrayer is herself betrayed. You've put together quite a
little team. 
AJUR: Do not interrupt the captain. 
PICARD: How did you get here? 
SOVAK: I found the disc in her room. 
VASH: That's impossible. I made a copy as a precaution, but I burned it
before we left. 
SOVAK: Only the outer casing was incinerated. Now, I had no intention
of interrupting you. Please, continue digging. 
(They've got about a metre down when Picard throws down his shovel) 
SOVAK: No one told you to stop digging, human. 
PICARD: I see no reason to continue. 
SOVAK: You will do as I say. 
PICARD: Look about you, Sovak. By now it must be obvious, even to you.
The Uthat is not here. 
SOVAK: Is this some pathetic attempt at trickery? Of course it's here.
We simply haven't found it yet. 
VASH: Are you saying that the professor's findings were wrong? 
PICARD: It would appear so. 
VASH: But how could that be? His evidence was overwhelming. 
SOVAK: Enough with this foolishness. Can't you see he's trying to
deceive us? Return to work this instant! 
VASH: I'm afraid he's right, Sovak. According to the disc we should
have reached it hours ago. 
SOVAK: Lies! Treachery! This cannot be happening. Not another failure.
Not after having come so close. 
AJUR: It is most puzzling. 
(The aliens beam away) 
PICARD: It's over, Sovak. 
SOVAK: No, I will not be cheated out of my prize. Tell him. Tell him
the professor's research is irrefutable. 
VASH: I don't know anymore. 
SOVAK: Then step aside. 
(Sovak starts digging for himself) 
SOVAK: The Uthat is here, somewhere. It's just waiting to be found. It
can't hide from me forever.

