TROI LAFORGE WORF PICARD RIKER WESLEY TAM CRUSHER DATA

[Observation lounge]

(Tam is suffering in the presence of so many minds)

(The presentation is now up on the main screen) 
DATA: Our orders are to proceed to this star, Beta Stromgren.
Scientists have discovered that it is in the final stages of an
alternating cycle of expansion and collapse, and will soon result in a
supernova. However, the unmanned long range space probe sent by
Starfleet to observe the process has discovered something much more. 
TAM: Oh, Data don't waste time. They call it Tin Man. The Vega probe
found it orbiting Stromgren. 
LAFORGE: Looks like some kind of ship. 
TAM: Its energy source is unknown. The people who've studied the
transmissions think it's a starship. And they're sure it's alive. 
PICARD: Alive? How? 
LAFORGE: A cybernetic organism like the Borg? 
TAM: No, no, no. Here. Starfleet believes it's an organic creature,
born in space, living its life in the wastes between stars. No one
knows where it came from, or why it's here. But we're going to meet it.
We're going to talk to it.
I'm going to talk to it. 
RIKER: Have attempts been made 
TAM: To communicate with it by subspace. Of course. Linguacode,
universal translation, all that. It won't work. Tin Man
is too different. Direct mind to mind contact is our only hope. 
TROI: The opportunity for discovery is extraordinary but I don't
understand Starfleet's urgency. 
PICARD: Romulans. 
TAM: Hell, I forgot. The Romulans. 
PICARD: They claim that sector of space where Beta Stromgren is
located. 
WORF: The Romulans claim all that is in their field of vision. 
DATA: They routinely monitor the telemetry of our deep space probes. 
PICARD: Then they will certainly be sending a ship of their own to
investigate this Tin Man. 
TAM: No. Actually, they're sending two. Data? 
DATA: That is correct. Starbase one two three has detected two
D'daridex class cruisers on an intercept course. The top speed of this
class cruiser is known to be less than ours. Therefore we do have some
advantage. 
PICARD: Then, it's a race? An alien intelligence, a new life form,
representing a technology far beyond that of either the Romulans or
ourselves. The Romulans will certainly take whatever measures are
required to secure this creature for study. 
LAFORGE: Study as in dissecting, I'd bet. 
PICARD: Mister Data, you are our resident honour student in exobiology.
I'm assigning you to head up the
Life Sciences on this mission. 
DATA: Aye, sir. 
TAM: Excellent. 
PICARD: Meeting adjourned, then. 
(As everyone but Picard, Riker, Tam and Data leave) 
TAM: So, Data, I guess you're the brains of this outfit, huh? 
PICARD: Mister Elbrun, one of the reasons I'm asking you to work
closely with a member of my staff is to avoid any further omissions.
The possibility of an encounter with Romulans on this mission is hardly
trivial. And yet 
TAM: All right, all right. I should have brought up the Romulans
earlier, but I was distracted. And no, Billy boy, I wasn't
distracted on Ghorusda. If Darson had listened to me, no one would have
died. No? Well I don't care whether you believe that or not.

Captain's log, supplemental. Travelling at high
warp, we are still several days from rendezvous with the mysterious
entity which Starfleet has christened Tin Man. My immediate concern is
with Tam Elbrun. Starfleet considers his unique abilities crucial to
our mission, yet he seems to me unstable.

[Crusher's office]

CRUSHER: Well, according to his medical records and
psych profile, he's very high on the ESP scale. A sort of prodigy. 
PICARD: A prodigy? In what sense? 
TROI: Well, in most Betazoids our telepathic gifts develop at
adolescence. 
PICARD: You mean you're not born reading minds? 
TROI: No. Except for some reason that no one understands, occasionally
a Betazoid child is born different. 
PICARD: How different? 
CRUSHER: Born with his telepathic abilities switched on. 
TROI: Most Betazoids born like that never lead a normal life. 
CRUSHER: The noise of other people's thoughts and feelings must be
overwhelming, incomprehensible, especially to a child. 
TROI: And painful. Early diagnosis and special training did help Tam
adjust, but he has some problems. 
PICARD: You mentioned a hospitalisation. 
TROI: For stress. Repeatedly, throughout his life. 
CRUSHER: I always wonder what holds one person together through that
kind of struggle, while another goes under? 
PICARD: Yes, well, he's evidently done more than hold together. He's
the indispensable man. The Federation's finest specialist in
communication with unknown life forms. 
CRUSHER: The more unusual a life form is, the better he likes it. His
personnel file shows that he's gravitated toward assignments that
isolate him from other humanoids.

[Bridge]

WESLEY: Commander Data, I'm picking up an unusual
echo from my navigational sensors. 
WORF: Something is out there, sir, tracking us, matching our speed and
heading. Something which does not fully register on our instruments. 
DATA: Since there is no known natural phenomenon capable of travel at
warp velocities, there are but two possibilities. Either it is a sensor
malfunction, another ship is following us covertly. 
WORF: It is not a sensor malfunction. 
DATA: Agreed. 
WESLEY: But Commander, if it is a Romulan ship, with their cloaking
device we shouldn't pick them up at all. 
LAFORGE: Unless they're pulling so much power for something else that
they can't fully cloak. 
WESLEY: Like what? 
LAFORGE: Ask the Romulans. If it is the Romulans. 
DATA: Lieutenant, continue monitoring the precise position of the echo.
Any sudden change in its behaviour, initiate Yellow Alert. 
WORF: Aye, sir.

[Tam's quarters]

TAM: Come in. 
(Deanna enters) 
TAM: How're things in the land of the living? 
TROI: I thought you might be lonely. No one sees you except Data. 
TAM: Lonely? I can hear everything that everyone on this ship thinks.
No one besides you seems to be missing my charming 
TROI: You want them to dislike you. Why? 
TAM: Because I'm not a nice man. Okay, okay. Because they scare me.
They're too many minds. I can't shut them out. I never could learn. All
their loves, their hates, their fears, their needs. It's like a tide
that never ebbs. I could drown. 
TROI: I remember. 
TAM: You understood, at least a little, how I felt. I see you finally
found a place to fit in. People to care about. 
TROI: And you're still looking. 
TAM: Then there's Ghorusda. I've got enough doubt in my reliability
without having to listen to Riker's and Picard's 
TROI: What happened there? 
TAM: I thought everyone knew. 
TROI: No. What happened to you? 
TAM: Maybe I got too involved with the Ghorusdans, with their point of
view. It happens to me. I wanted everyone to get along. I could have
warned Darson more forcefully. 
TROI: So, after that you ran away? The last I heard, you were the only
Federation delegate assigned to Chandra Five. 
TAM: Beautiful creatures, the Chandrans. Their minds are glacial. They
have a lovely three day ritual for saying hello. Peaceful, untroubled
people. 
TROI: Unlike humanoids? 
TAM: Well, except for your friend Data. I like him. He's restful. 
TROI: I believe your impression of Data is probably unique. 
TAM: Yeah? Well, having to get to know someone, just once, has its
appeal. I mean, talking to them, instead of getting it all at once up
here whether I want it or not. 
TROI: But you accepted this mission. You could have stayed on Chandra
Five. You willingly came aboard a ship with over a thousand people. 
TAM: How could I not? Think of it, Dee. This intelligence that swims
naked through space like a fish in the sea. Totally alien, mysterious,
not like us at all. Ancient. And alone. So lonely, for so long. 
TROI: How can you know that? Tam? You're in contact with it. With Tin
Man. Aren't you? 
TAM: No. Well, yes, a little. But not quite on a conscious level. 
TROI: We're light years away. That's impossible, even for you. 
TAM: Impossible for me. Maybe not impossible for Tin Man.

