RIKER LAFORGE WORF PICARD WESLEY COMPUTER TAM DATA

[Bridge]

PICARD: Status report, Number One? 
RIKER: We've reached the outer regions of the Beta Stromgren system. On
course for orbital intercept of Tin Man, ETA eighteen minutes. 
PICARD: Grand. 
RIKER: Not altogether. Astrophysics reports that the star's rate of
collapse has increased. It could go supernova in the next few days. 
DATA: Captain, we are receiving relayed sensor data from the Vega
Probe, including visuals. 
PICARD: On screen. 
(There's the big, angry orange-red star) 
PICARD: Magnify. 
(And a thing that is built like a magnified hair, with the overlapping
scales) 
PICARD: Remarkable. Computer locate Tam Elbrun. 
COMPUTER: Tam Elbrun is in turbolift one, en route to the main Bridge. 
PICARD: Of course. 
WORF: Captain. Our sensors are detecting a subspace wave front of
highly ionised particles preceding the object which is tracking us. 
(Troi and Tam have entered) 
PICARD: Yellow Alert. On screen. 
(It's green and mean) 
WORF: Romulan warbird closing. They are arming main disruptors,
Captain. 
PICARD: Go to Red Alert. Shields to maximum. 
RIKER: Arm photon torpedoes and stand by, Mister Worf. 
WORF: Aye, sir. 
RIKER: I thought you said the Enterprise was faster than this Romulan. 
DATA: In fact, we are, Commander. However 
PICARD: Evasive, Mister Crusher. Hailing frequencies. 
TAM: I guarantee that they don't want to talk to you, Captain. 
(Weapons hit, and the lights dim. The Romulan makes a strafing run then
heads for the star) 
WORF: The Romulan has passed us. 
PICARD: Damage report. 
WORF: Casualties reported. Seventy percent loss to the shields. 
TAM: Their attack on us was incidental, Captain. 
PICARD: Incidental? 
TAM: Yes. To delay us. 
DATA: Captain, it would appear that the Romulan's intent is to contact
Tin Man first, at any cost. According to my sensor readings, the
warbird has exceeded maximum engine output by thirty percent. They seem
to have irreparable damage to their warp coils. 
RIKER: So they kept up with us by sacrificing their ability to re-enter
Romulan space. 
PICARD: One way trip. 
TAM: There is one more trailing us, Captain. A day or two behind.
Data's right. This one's job is to beat us to Tin Man at any cost. 
PICARD: You read all this, telepathically? 
TAM: In the mind of the Romulan commander during the attack. 
PICARD: Very well. Mister Crusher, all stop. 
WESLEY: Aye, sir. 
PICARD: Commander La Forge. 
LAFORGE [OC]: La Forge here. 
PICARD: Geordi

[Engineering]

PICARD [OC]: How long to full shield restoration? 
LAFORGE: I'm working on it. Computer, reconfigure structural integrity
power to feed inner deflector grid. 
COMPUTER: Unable to comply. Requested reroute would compromise
operational safety limits. 
LAFORGE: To hell with the limits. Override. Authorization La Forge
theta two nine nine seven. 
COMPUTER: Rerouting structural integrity power supply. 
LAFORGE: Russell, watch the lateral grid balance. No. no, no, that's
too much. We're going to have to do it manually. La Forge to Bridge. 
PICARD [OC]: Go ahead. 
LAFORGE: Captain, I'm trying to feed the inner grid by stealing some
power from the structural integrity field. You should have partial
shielding in thirty minutes. 
PICARD [OC]: You have ten. Picard out. 
[Bridge]

PICARD: If the Romulans wish the honour of the
first contact, let them have it. 
TAM: You're out of your mind, Picard! What if the Romulans find a way
to persuade Tin Man to 
PICARD: I think the chances of that is remote. And if you will be
still, Mister Elbrun, you may learn. 
TAM: What? 
PICARD: That being first, at any cost, is not always the point. Mister
Data, while we await repairs, I want Life Sciences and Engineering to
continue collecting information on the alien. And query the Vega Nine
probe, long range sensors. 
DATA: Aye, sir.

[Data's quarters]

TAM: You do a lot of your work here? 
DATA: Yes. I have configured these instruments to display information
with greater speed and efficiency than stations used by the others. 
TAM: Nice. A little Spartan. 
DATA: Spartan? 
TAM: Lots of work space, not much room to live. I don't guess you
sleep. 
DATA: I have tried it from time to time. But you are correct. I do not
require rest. 
TAM: But you paint. 
DATA: The creature's anatomy appears most peculiar. 
TAM: In what way? 
DATA: It is indeed laid out as a vessel with what appear to be
corridors and chambers. An internal environment suitable for carbon
based life forms is being maintained, yet there is no evidence of a
crew aboard. Tin Man is a living being which has been bred or has
adapted itself to serve a purpose. I find that interesting. 
TAM: Why? Must living beings have a purpose? Or do we exist for no
reason but to exist? 
DATA: I do not believe I am qualified to express an opinion. 
TAM: Ah, Data, you're uniquely qualified. You think a great deal about
humanity and you're an honest researcher. You don't
treat anything as trivial, or irrelevant. You want to try it all. 
DATA: You said in the transporter room that you could not read my mind.

TAM: True enough. But I think I understand you pretty well. It worries
you that I can't read your mind? 
DATA: Perhaps there is nothing to read. Nothing more than mechanisms
and algorithmic responses. 
TAM: Perhaps you're just different. Not a sin, you know, though you may
have heard otherwise.

