TROI LAFORGE WORF PICARD RIKER WESLEY COMPUTER TAM CRUSHER DATA

[Crusher's office]

CRUSHER: Well, according to his medical records and
psych profile, he's very high on the ESP scale. A sort of prodigy. 
PICARD: A prodigy? In what sense? 
TROI: Well, in most Betazoids our telepathic gifts develop at
adolescence. 
PICARD: You mean you're not born reading minds? 
TROI: No. Except for some reason that no one understands, occasionally
a Betazoid child is born different. 
PICARD: How different? 
CRUSHER: Born with his telepathic abilities switched on. 
TROI: Most Betazoids born like that never lead a normal life. 
CRUSHER: The noise of other people's thoughts and feelings must be
overwhelming, incomprehensible, especially to a child. 
TROI: And painful. Early diagnosis and special training did help Tam
adjust, but he has some problems. 
PICARD: You mentioned a hospitalisation. 
TROI: For stress. Repeatedly, throughout his life. 
CRUSHER: I always wonder what holds one person together through that
kind of struggle, while another goes under? 
PICARD: Yes, well, he's evidently done more than hold together. He's
the indispensable man. The Federation's finest specialist in
communication with unknown life forms. 
CRUSHER: The more unusual a life form is, the better he likes it. His
personnel file shows that he's gravitated toward assignments that
isolate him from other humanoids.

[Bridge]

WESLEY: Commander Data, I'm picking up an unusual
echo from my navigational sensors. 
WORF: Something is out there, sir, tracking us, matching our speed and
heading. Something which does not fully register on our instruments. 
DATA: Since there is no known natural phenomenon capable of travel at
warp velocities, there are but two possibilities. Either it is a sensor
malfunction, another ship is following us covertly. 
WORF: It is not a sensor malfunction. 
DATA: Agreed. 
WESLEY: But Commander, if it is a Romulan ship, with their cloaking
device we shouldn't pick them up at all. 
LAFORGE: Unless they're pulling so much power for something else that
they can't fully cloak. 
WESLEY: Like what? 
LAFORGE: Ask the Romulans. If it is the Romulans. 
DATA: Lieutenant, continue monitoring the precise position of the echo.
Any sudden change in its behaviour, initiate Yellow Alert. 
WORF: Aye, sir.

[Tam's quarters]

TAM: Come in. 
(Deanna enters) 
TAM: How're things in the land of the living? 
TROI: I thought you might be lonely. No one sees you except Data. 
TAM: Lonely? I can hear everything that everyone on this ship thinks.
No one besides you seems to be missing my charming 
TROI: You want them to dislike you. Why? 
TAM: Because I'm not a nice man. Okay, okay. Because they scare me.
They're too many minds. I can't shut them out. I never could learn. All
their loves, their hates, their fears, their needs. It's like a tide
that never ebbs. I could drown. 
TROI: I remember. 
TAM: You understood, at least a little, how I felt. I see you finally
found a place to fit in. People to care about. 
TROI: And you're still looking. 
TAM: Then there's Ghorusda. I've got enough doubt in my reliability
without having to listen to Riker's and Picard's 
TROI: What happened there? 
TAM: I thought everyone knew. 
TROI: No. What happened to you? 
TAM: Maybe I got too involved with the Ghorusdans, with their point of
view. It happens to me. I wanted everyone to get along. I could have
warned Darson more forcefully. 
TROI: So, after that you ran away? The last I heard, you were the only
Federation delegate assigned to Chandra Five. 
TAM: Beautiful creatures, the Chandrans. Their minds are glacial. They
have a lovely three day ritual for saying hello. Peaceful, untroubled
people. 
TROI: Unlike humanoids? 
TAM: Well, except for your friend Data. I like him. He's restful. 
TROI: I believe your impression of Data is probably unique. 
TAM: Yeah? Well, having to get to know someone, just once, has its
appeal. I mean, talking to them, instead of getting it all at once up
here whether I want it or not. 
TROI: But you accepted this mission. You could have stayed on Chandra
Five. You willingly came aboard a ship with over a thousand people. 
TAM: How could I not? Think of it, Dee. This intelligence that swims
naked through space like a fish in the sea. Totally alien, mysterious,
not like us at all. Ancient. And alone. So lonely, for so long. 
TROI: How can you know that? Tam? You're in contact with it. With Tin
Man. Aren't you? 
TAM: No. Well, yes, a little. But not quite on a conscious level. 
TROI: We're light years away. That's impossible, even for you. 
TAM: Impossible for me. Maybe not impossible for Tin Man.

[Bridge]

PICARD: Status report, Number One? 
RIKER: We've reached the outer regions of the Beta Stromgren system. On
course for orbital intercept of Tin Man, ETA eighteen minutes. 
PICARD: Grand. 
RIKER: Not altogether. Astrophysics reports that the star's rate of
collapse has increased. It could go supernova in the next few days. 
DATA: Captain, we are receiving relayed sensor data from the Vega
Probe, including visuals. 
PICARD: On screen. 
(There's the big, angry orange-red star) 
PICARD: Magnify. 
(And a thing that is built like a magnified hair, with the overlapping
scales) 
PICARD: Remarkable. Computer locate Tam Elbrun. 
COMPUTER: Tam Elbrun is in turbolift one, en route to the main Bridge. 
PICARD: Of course. 
WORF: Captain. Our sensors are detecting a subspace wave front of
highly ionised particles preceding the object which is tracking us. 
(Troi and Tam have entered) 
PICARD: Yellow Alert. On screen. 
(It's green and mean) 
WORF: Romulan warbird closing. They are arming main disruptors,
Captain. 
PICARD: Go to Red Alert. Shields to maximum. 
RIKER: Arm photon torpedoes and stand by, Mister Worf. 
WORF: Aye, sir. 
RIKER: I thought you said the Enterprise was faster than this Romulan. 
DATA: In fact, we are, Commander. However 
PICARD: Evasive, Mister Crusher. Hailing frequencies. 
TAM: I guarantee that they don't want to talk to you, Captain. 
(Weapons hit, and the lights dim. The Romulan makes a strafing run then
heads for the star) 
WORF: The Romulan has passed us. 
PICARD: Damage report. 
WORF: Casualties reported. Seventy percent loss to the shields. 
TAM: Their attack on us was incidental, Captain. 
PICARD: Incidental? 
TAM: Yes. To delay us. 
DATA: Captain, it would appear that the Romulan's intent is to contact
Tin Man first, at any cost. According to my sensor readings, the
warbird has exceeded maximum engine output by thirty percent. They seem
to have irreparable damage to their warp coils. 
RIKER: So they kept up with us by sacrificing their ability to re-enter
Romulan space. 
PICARD: One way trip. 
TAM: There is one more trailing us, Captain. A day or two behind.
Data's right. This one's job is to beat us to Tin Man at any cost. 
PICARD: You read all this, telepathically? 
TAM: In the mind of the Romulan commander during the attack. 
PICARD: Very well. Mister Crusher, all stop. 
WESLEY: Aye, sir. 
PICARD: Commander La Forge. 
LAFORGE [OC]: La Forge here. 
PICARD: Geordi

