TROI LAFORGE WORF PICARD LAFORGE [OC] RIKER COMPUTER RIKER [OC] TAM CRUSHER
confirmed computer worf scan try systemic closely got chips

[Sickbay]

CRUSHER: Your brain activity suggests that you're
coming out of a sort of fugue, or seizure. Your blood pressure and
glucose are indicative of general systemic stress. 
TAM: But I'm going to live? 
CRUSHER: No doubt about it. 
PICARD: Good. Because I want to know exactly what you did. I want to
know how closely you are in communication with the alien, and what
you've learned about it, and I want to know now. 
TAM: I just warned it, that's all. I've been in contact with it,
sensing impressions from it. It calls itself Gomtuu. It's old, Captain.
It's roamed the universe for many thousands of years. 
PICARD: Where did it come from? How many 
TAM: Far away. Maybe beyond the galaxy. Once there were millions of
them. 
PICARD: Once? 
TAM: It hasn't seen another of its kind for millennia. It's alone. It
may be the last of its species. 
PICARD: Perhaps we can help it in some way. Can you ask it to return
with us to Federation space? At least persuade it to leave the vicinity
of Beta Stromgren, before the star explodes? 
TAM: Captain, Gomtuu knows that the star will go nova soon. That's why
it's here. It wants to die. There was an explosion in space. Radiation
penetrating the outer layers. The crew. Oh, the crew died. Such loss.
Empty pain, Hollowness. 
TROI: Tam. Stop this! You're losing yourself in this this merging. 
TAM: I know. I know. Tin Man hurts and wants to die. I can't do any
more from out here. If you want me to really reach Tin Man, I have got
to be in physical contact. I have got to go aboard. 
PICARD: No. That is absolutely out of the question. 
TAM: You don't trust me. 
PICARD: No, Tam, I don't believe that I do. Tam, when you reached out
to the alien, to warn it, did you give any thought to this vessel? To
the danger, however inadvertent, that creature might pose to our crew?
Or did you simply react out of instinct? 
TROI: Captain 
TAM: Deanna, he's right. I don't know. I don't know what might happen
but if you don't let me go, we fail our mission. Besides, at this
point, you need all the help you can get. Even Tin Man's.

[Engineering]

LAFORGE: Russell, reactivate the sensor assemblies.
Okay, let's do a programme reload, port array only. Good. That's good.
Computer, run level two diagnostic. 
COMPUTER: Port sensor array remains offline. 
LAFORGE: Damn. 
RIKER [OC]: Riker to La Forge. How's it coming? 
LAFORGE: Not good. I think all the control processors are shot. But
maybe if I swap the chips from the secondary array, I can give you a
minimum EM scan. 
RIKER [OC]: Do it. 
LAFORGE: Okay Russell, we're going to try starting retro sensor element
thirty two only. You in? Go. The good news is that we have partial long
range sensors. La Forge to Bridge. 
RIKER [OC]: Riker here. 
LAFORGE: I'm picking up another echo on the long range sensor display
here. You getting that

[Bridge]

LAFORGE [OC]: On your panel? 
RIKER: Worf? 
WORF: One moment, Commander. Confirmed. Sir, the other Romulan ship on
an intercept course. 
RIKER: Geordi, are we going to have those shields anytime soon? 
LAFORGE [OC]: I'm doing the best I can 
[Engineering]

LAFORGE: But shields won't help if that star
explodes. 

