TROI LAFORGE WORF PICARD RIKER WESLEY TAM CRUSHER DATA

[Data's quarters]

TAM: You do a lot of your work here? 
DATA: Yes. I have configured these instruments to display information
with greater speed and efficiency than stations used by the others. 
TAM: Nice. A little Spartan. 
DATA: Spartan? 
TAM: Lots of work space, not much room to live. I don't guess you
sleep. 
DATA: I have tried it from time to time. But you are correct. I do not
require rest. 
TAM: But you paint. 
DATA: The creature's anatomy appears most peculiar. 
TAM: In what way? 
DATA: It is indeed laid out as a vessel with what appear to be
corridors and chambers. An internal environment suitable for carbon
based life forms is being maintained, yet there is no evidence of a
crew aboard. Tin Man is a living being which has been bred or has
adapted itself to serve a purpose. I find that interesting. 
TAM: Why? Must living beings have a purpose? Or do we exist for no
reason but to exist? 
DATA: I do not believe I am qualified to express an opinion. 
TAM: Ah, Data, you're uniquely qualified. You think a great deal about
humanity and you're an honest researcher. You don't
treat anything as trivial, or irrelevant. You want to try it all. 
DATA: You said in the transporter room that you could not read my mind.

TAM: True enough. But I think I understand you pretty well. It worries
you that I can't read your mind? 
DATA: Perhaps there is nothing to read. Nothing more than mechanisms
and algorithmic responses. 
TAM: Perhaps you're just different. Not a sin, you know, though you may
have heard otherwise.

[Bridge]

DATA: Captain, the Romulan ship is hailing the
alien using their equivalent of linguacode. 
RIKER: Response? 
DATA: Nothing so far, Commander. 
TAM: Why should it answer? What could it possibly have in common with
them? 
RIKER: But you're so sure it'll talk to you. 
WORF: Captain, the Romulans are arming all disruptors. 
PICARD: Yellow alert. Prepare for evasive action at the first change in
the Romulan's course. 
RIKER: With our shields in their present condition, we can't 
TAM: No! No! We're not the target. It's Tin Man. 
PICARD: What do you mean? Do they intend to destroy it? 
TAM: Those are their orders if they can't secure the alien. 
PICARD: Increase speed to intercept the Romulan vessel. 
WESLEY: Their lead is too great, sir. 
PICARD: Hail them. We cannot allow them 
TAM: They won't listen to you! 
(Tam closes his eyes and clenches his fists) 
TAM: Danger. Gomtuu. Do not allow. 
(Tin Man turns, presents its stern? to the Romulans and emits an energy
pulse that blows the green machine to atoms. The pulse then hits the
Enterprise, knocking everyone over and triggering Red Alert) 
PICARD: Damage report! 
WORF: Nothing available yet, sir. We have partial failure of the main
computer. 
PICARD: It seems you woke your Tin Man.

[Engineering]

LAFORGE: We've got impulse power, but I've got to
take the warp engines offline while we recalibrate the intermix
regulators. 
RIKER: How long? 
LAFORGE: For everything, or just for the warp engine? 
RIKER: All of it. 
LAFORGE: Commander, we're looking at twenty hours work here, double
shifts. 
RIKER: We don't know that we have twenty hours. That star could explode
at any moment. 
LAFORGE: I know. Okay, first thing we need to do is get the main
computer working right. 
RIKER: No, we fix the shields first. 
LAFORGE: Commander, whatever Tin Man hit us with, it fried circuits I
thought were unfryable. 
RIKER: I'm not worried about Tin Man. It's more Romulans showing up. 
LAFORGE: Right. First priority, get the shields up. Only let's not have
any more surprises till I'm done, okay? 
RIKER: Don't ask me about surprises. Ask Tam Elbrun.

[Sickbay]

CRUSHER: Your brain activity suggests that you're
coming out of a sort of fugue, or seizure. Your blood pressure and
glucose are indicative of general systemic stress. 
TAM: But I'm going to live? 
CRUSHER: No doubt about it. 
PICARD: Good. Because I want to know exactly what you did. I want to
know how closely you are in communication with the alien, and what
you've learned about it, and I want to know now. 
TAM: I just warned it, that's all. I've been in contact with it,
sensing impressions from it. It calls itself Gomtuu. It's old, Captain.
It's roamed the universe for many thousands of years. 
PICARD: Where did it come from? How many 
TAM: Far away. Maybe beyond the galaxy. Once there were millions of
them. 
PICARD: Once? 
TAM: It hasn't seen another of its kind for millennia. It's alone. It
may be the last of its species. 
PICARD: Perhaps we can help it in some way. Can you ask it to return
with us to Federation space? At least persuade it to leave the vicinity
of Beta Stromgren, before the star explodes? 
TAM: Captain, Gomtuu knows that the star will go nova soon. That's why
it's here. It wants to die. There was an explosion in space. Radiation
penetrating the outer layers. The crew. Oh, the crew died. Such loss.
Empty pain, Hollowness. 
TROI: Tam. Stop this! You're losing yourself in this this merging. 
TAM: I know. I know. Tin Man hurts and wants to die. I can't do any
more from out here. If you want me to really reach Tin Man, I have got
to be in physical contact. I have got to go aboard. 
PICARD: No. That is absolutely out of the question. 
TAM: You don't trust me. 
PICARD: No, Tam, I don't believe that I do. Tam, when you reached out
to the alien, to warn it, did you give any thought to this vessel? To
the danger, however inadvertent, that creature might pose to our crew?
Or did you simply react out of instinct? 
TROI: Captain 
TAM: Deanna, he's right. I don't know. I don't know what might happen
but if you don't let me go, we fail our mission. Besides, at this
point, you need all the help you can get. Even Tin Man's.

