TROI LAFORGE WORF PICARD RIKER TAM CRUSHER DATA
parsecs furthest right carelessness distracted mind going incomprehensible talk

[Turbolift]

RIKER: Main Bridge. 
LAFORGE: So what happened? 
RIKER: It was a first contact situation. Ghorusdan culture is so
complex and different, that the Federation sent a specialist to prevent
misunderstanding. 
LAFORGE: So that was Tam Elbrun. What happened was his fault? 
RIKER: Not directly. Board of inquiry blamed Darson for carelessness
about Ghorusdan cultural taboos. But if Elbrun was so good, why didn't
he warn Darson? What was he doing there if he couldn't sense that much
hostility?

[Bridge]

DATA: Our destination is the Beta Stromgren system,
following the path of the Vega Nine probe. 
RIKER: That's twenty three parsecs beyond our furthest manned
explorations. 
DATA: That is correct, Commander. Apparently the probe has discovered.
Astonishing.

[Observation lounge]

(Tam is suffering in the presence of so many minds)

(The presentation is now up on the main screen) 
DATA: Our orders are to proceed to this star, Beta Stromgren.
Scientists have discovered that it is in the final stages of an
alternating cycle of expansion and collapse, and will soon result in a
supernova. However, the unmanned long range space probe sent by
Starfleet to observe the process has discovered something much more. 
TAM: Oh, Data don't waste time. They call it Tin Man. The Vega probe
found it orbiting Stromgren. 
LAFORGE: Looks like some kind of ship. 
TAM: Its energy source is unknown. The people who've studied the
transmissions think it's a starship. And they're sure it's alive. 
PICARD: Alive? How? 
LAFORGE: A cybernetic organism like the Borg? 
TAM: No, no, no. Here. Starfleet believes it's an organic creature,
born in space, living its life in the wastes between stars. No one
knows where it came from, or why it's here. But we're going to meet it.
We're going to talk to it.
I'm going to talk to it. 
RIKER: Have attempts been made 
TAM: To communicate with it by subspace. Of course. Linguacode,
universal translation, all that. It won't work. Tin Man
is too different. Direct mind to mind contact is our only hope. 
TROI: The opportunity for discovery is extraordinary but I don't
understand Starfleet's urgency. 
PICARD: Romulans. 
TAM: Hell, I forgot. The Romulans. 
PICARD: They claim that sector of space where Beta Stromgren is
located. 
WORF: The Romulans claim all that is in their field of vision. 
DATA: They routinely monitor the telemetry of our deep space probes. 
PICARD: Then they will certainly be sending a ship of their own to
investigate this Tin Man. 
TAM: No. Actually, they're sending two. Data? 
DATA: That is correct. Starbase one two three has detected two
D'daridex class cruisers on an intercept course. The top speed of this
class cruiser is known to be less than ours. Therefore we do have some
advantage. 
PICARD: Then, it's a race? An alien intelligence, a new life form,
representing a technology far beyond that of either the Romulans or
ourselves. The Romulans will certainly take whatever measures are
required to secure this creature for study. 
LAFORGE: Study as in dissecting, I'd bet. 
PICARD: Mister Data, you are our resident honour student in exobiology.
I'm assigning you to head up the
Life Sciences on this mission. 
DATA: Aye, sir. 
TAM: Excellent. 
PICARD: Meeting adjourned, then. 
(As everyone but Picard, Riker, Tam and Data leave) 
TAM: So, Data, I guess you're the brains of this outfit, huh? 
PICARD: Mister Elbrun, one of the reasons I'm asking you to work
closely with a member of my staff is to avoid any further omissions.
The possibility of an encounter with Romulans on this mission is hardly
trivial. And yet 
TAM: All right, all right. I should have brought up the Romulans
earlier, but I was distracted. And no, Billy boy, I wasn't
distracted on Ghorusda. If Darson had listened to me, no one would have
died. No? Well I don't care whether you believe that or not.

Captain's log, supplemental. Travelling at high
warp, we are still several days from rendezvous with the mysterious
entity which Starfleet has christened Tin Man. My immediate concern is
with Tam Elbrun. Starfleet considers his unique abilities crucial to
our mission, yet he seems to me unstable.

[Crusher's office]

CRUSHER: Well, according to his medical records and
psych profile, he's very high on the ESP scale. A sort of prodigy. 
PICARD: A prodigy? In what sense? 
TROI: Well, in most Betazoids our telepathic gifts develop at
adolescence. 
PICARD: You mean you're not born reading minds? 
TROI: No. Except for some reason that no one understands, occasionally
a Betazoid child is born different. 
PICARD: How different? 
CRUSHER: Born with his telepathic abilities switched on. 
TROI: Most Betazoids born like that never lead a normal life. 
CRUSHER: The noise of other people's thoughts and feelings must be
overwhelming, incomprehensible, especially to a child. 
TROI: And painful. Early diagnosis and special training did help Tam
adjust, but he has some problems. 
PICARD: You mentioned a hospitalisation. 
TROI: For stress. Repeatedly, throughout his life. 
CRUSHER: I always wonder what holds one person together through that
kind of struggle, while another goes under? 
PICARD: Yes, well, he's evidently done more than hold together. He's
the indispensable man. The Federation's finest specialist in
communication with unknown life forms. 
CRUSHER: The more unusual a life form is, the better he likes it. His
personnel file shows that he's gravitated toward assignments that
isolate him from other humanoids.

