TROI LAFORGE WESLEY DUFFY DATA BARCLAY
draw clandestinely ale atomic briefing got referred explanation happened

[Holodeck - Glade]

(Deanna is in Grecian robes) 
TROI: I am the goddess of Empathy. Cast off your inhibitions and
embrace love, truth, joy. 
(Barclay embraces her, passionately) 
[Ten Forward]

WESLEY: But I thought that's the point of the
briefing. To discuss different approaches. 
LAFORGE: It's not that you did anything wrong, Wes. It's just that
Barclay's, well, he's my new project. 
DUFFY: Yeah, Broccoli's a real project all right. 
LAFORGE: I just need to draw him out some more. 
WESLEY: And I shut him down. Poor Broccoli. 
DATA: Pardon me, but why is Lieutenant Barclay being referred to
clandestinely as a vegetable? 
WESLEY: It's a joke, Data. You know, a nickname. 
DATA: Nicknames generally denote fondness, a diminutive shared between
friends. 
LAFORGE: Data's absolutely right. The nickname stops here and now.
Captain's orders. 
(Duffy picks up his glass, which has an impression of his fingers on it
and promptly leaks from the bottom) 
DUFFY: What the hell? 
WESLEY: What happened to your glass? 
(Data's glass is the same)

[Engineering]

DATA: Nucleosynthesis. The structure of the glass
has been altered at the atomic level. 
LAFORGE: A problem with the replicator? 
DATA: Unlikely. A problem with the replicator would have affected the
contents as well as the glass. But the liquid in the glass was a
synthehol replication of a light ale of Earth origin, which is, I
believe what Lieutenant Duffy ordered. 
LAFORGE: I can't detect any residual radiation or unusual chemical
compounds that would have caused this. 
DATA: The most probable explanation is that the glass came into contact
with an unshielded power source. 
LAFORGE: That means a complete diagnostic check of the Enterprise power
systems. All four thousand of them. Do I have the perfect man for this
job. Hey, Reg. Busy? 
BARCLAY: Well, I was just. No, not really. Why? 
LAFORGE: I've got another mystery for you. Somehow the molecular
structure of this cup from Ten Forward has been altered. We need to run
through the power systems to see if there's a leak that caused this. 
BARCLAY: I had, I was going to do that. 
LAFORGE: You were? 
BARCLAY: Yes. To, to try to explain the anti-grav unit failure. I still
can't. Nothing about it makes sense. 
DATA: Then it is possible these two very disparate incidents could be
related.

