RIKER LAFORGE PICARD WESLEY BARCLAY DATA DUFFY
origin wouldn busy run compounds bother synthehol real thousand

[Ten Forward]

WESLEY: But I thought that's the point of the
briefing. To discuss different approaches. 
LAFORGE: It's not that you did anything wrong, Wes. It's just that
Barclay's, well, he's my new project. 
DUFFY: Yeah, Broccoli's a real project all right. 
LAFORGE: I just need to draw him out some more. 
WESLEY: And I shut him down. Poor Broccoli. 
DATA: Pardon me, but why is Lieutenant Barclay being referred to
clandestinely as a vegetable? 
WESLEY: It's a joke, Data. You know, a nickname. 
DATA: Nicknames generally denote fondness, a diminutive shared between
friends. 
LAFORGE: Data's absolutely right. The nickname stops here and now.
Captain's orders. 
(Duffy picks up his glass, which has an impression of his fingers on it
and promptly leaks from the bottom) 
DUFFY: What the hell? 
WESLEY: What happened to your glass? 
(Data's glass is the same)

[Engineering]

DATA: Nucleosynthesis. The structure of the glass
has been altered at the atomic level. 
LAFORGE: A problem with the replicator? 
DATA: Unlikely. A problem with the replicator would have affected the
contents as well as the glass. But the liquid in the glass was a
synthehol replication of a light ale of Earth origin, which is, I
believe what Lieutenant Duffy ordered. 
LAFORGE: I can't detect any residual radiation or unusual chemical
compounds that would have caused this. 
DATA: The most probable explanation is that the glass came into contact
with an unshielded power source. 
LAFORGE: That means a complete diagnostic check of the Enterprise power
systems. All four thousand of them. Do I have the perfect man for this
job. Hey, Reg. Busy? 
BARCLAY: Well, I was just. No, not really. Why? 
LAFORGE: I've got another mystery for you. Somehow the molecular
structure of this cup from Ten Forward has been altered. We need to run
through the power systems to see if there's a leak that caused this. 
BARCLAY: I had, I was going to do that. 
LAFORGE: You were? 
BARCLAY: Yes. To, to try to explain the anti-grav unit failure. I still
can't. Nothing about it makes sense. 
DATA: Then it is possible these two very disparate incidents could be
related.

[Bridge]

(Geordi is at a rear station, showing Riker the
glass) 
LAFORGE: I wouldn't bother you with something this minor, Commander,
but it may be a symptom of a more serious problem. 
RIKER: Do you think we'll need to put in to a starbase? 
LAFORGE: We'll have a better idea after Mister Barclay runs a check on
the power systems. 
DATA: It was Lieutenant Barclay who first suggested a link between the
two incidents. 
BARCLAY: What? No, it wasn't. I mean, not really. 
PICARD: Will your investigation affect our available power during the
mission? 
BARCLAY: No, No, sir. We'll have to shut off some systems. We'll shut
them down a few at a time. It shouldn't. I don't think so. 
PICARD: Good. I look forward to your report, Mister Broccoli. (big
silence) Barclay. 
BARCLAY: If you will excuse me. 
(Barclay leaves) 
DATA: Metathesis is one of the most common of pronunciation errors,
sir. A reversal of vowel and consonant, Barc to Broc. 
(Suddenly Data becomes fascinated by something on a control panel)

