RIKER LAFORGE WORF PICARD LAFORGE [OC] WESLEY COMPUTER BARCLAY DATA DUFFY
realigning shakes thousand canisters problems possibility weren safety swirl

[Engineering]

LAFORGE: We can't shut it down, Captain. Antimatter
flow is increasing. She's accelerating out of control.

[Bridge]

LAFORGE [OC]: There's nothing I can do. 
WORF: Approaching warp nine sir. 
PICARD: Red alert. 
RIKER: Estimated time to structural failure. 
DATA: At this rate of acceleration, fifteen minutes forty seconds, sir.

RIKER: Did you copy that, Geordi? 
LAFORGE [OC]: Aye, Commander. 
RIKER: Recommendations.

[Engineering]

LAFORGE: I'll let you know as soon as we have some.
La Forge out. Okay, this ship is going to start tearing itself apart in
fifteen minutes. I want every idea on the table. I don't care how
outrageous. 
DUFFY: What about attempting a magnetic quench on the fusion
pre-burners? 
LAFORGE: No, I already tried that. The magnetic fields won't reset. 
WESLEY: Could the fuel inlet servos be caught in cycle? 
LAFORGE: If they were, the swirl dampers would be frozen too and they
aren't. 
DUFFY: Nothing showed up in the diagnostic sweep at all? 
BARCLAY: The tests showed there were problems, I mean no problems with
the flow, the flow of the. 
LAFORGE: There's nothing wrong with the computer control protocols or
the power transfer systems. As far as we can determine, the injectors
are just physically jammed. 
DUFFY: Injectors freeze, anti-grav unit goes down, and transporter
malfunctions. 
WESLEY: And a twisted glass. 
LAFORGE: What's the connection?

[Bridge]

WORF: Exceeding warp nine point four. 
PICARD: Begin evacuation of secondary hull. Prepare for emergency
saucer separation. 
WORF: Standing by to release docking clamps. 
RIKER: Reroute systems to primary hull power sources. 
DATA: The plasma flow to the nacelles is uneven due to injector lock.
An emergency saucer separation could rupture the warp field. 
(The ship shakes under the stress) 
DATA: Twelve minutes to structural failure, sir.

[Engineering]

LAFORGE: None of the systems involved interact
directly with each other. I don't see anything in common. 
BARCLAY: What if, what if, what if one of us is the connection? 
DUFFY: Us? How? 
BARCLAY: I don't know, but we're looking for a systemic explanation and
there isn't one. We work with all the systems that are affected. What
if we're transmitting something ourselves by touching it, or something.

WESLEY: The computer sensors would've picked up anything dangerous. 
BARCLAY: But if it were something, something that we couldn't scan, you
might've passed it to the injectors when you were realigning the
magnetic capacitors. 
LAFORGE: It was your glass, Duffy and both of you were present in the
cargo bay when the anti-grav failed. 
DUFFY: So was O'Brien. 
WESLEY: The transporter malfunction. That's a connection too. 
COMPUTER: Danger. Approaching safety limits of engine containment
field. 
LAFORGE: Computer, list all physical substances that wouldn't normally
be picked up by an internal scan. 
COMPUTER: There are fifteen thousand five hundred twenty five known
substances that cannot be detected by standard scans. 
LAFORGE: Great. And how many of those can exist in an oxygen
atmosphere? 
COMPUTER: Five hundred thirty two. 
LAFORGE: And could alter molecular structure when it comes in contact
with glass. 
COMPUTER: Five. 
LAFORGE: On screen at this station. Duffy. 
BARCLAY: Jakmanite has a half life of fifteen seconds. There wouldn't
be enough time to spread it around the ship. 
LAFORGE: Right. 
WESLEY: Selgninaem and lucovexitrin are highly toxic. 
LAFORGE: Yeah, we'd all be dead by now. That leaves saltzgadum and
invidium, neither of which has been used for decades. 
WESLEY: Could either one of them cause all these malfunctions? 
DUFFY: Most of the affected systems weren't even invented when those
substances were in use. Who knows what could happen with a transporter
or a magnetic capacitor? 
LAFORGE: Wait a minute, wasn't invidium used in medical containment
fields? 
WESLEY: Not for over a century. 
BARCLAY: The Mikulaks might still be using it. 
DUFFY: And one of those canisters was broken. 
LAFORGE: La Forge to Bridge. We have a working theory, Captain. There's
a good possibility we picked up some Invidium from a broken canister in
the cargo bay 
[Bridge]

LAFORGE [OC]: And have been spreading it around the
ship. 
RIKER: Working theories are fine, Geordi. 
