WESLEY TROI DUFFY LAFORGE BARCLAY
sir like matter wish hours bring antigrav interesting field

[Engineering]

LAFORGE: Morning. Start your brains, gentlemen, and
let's do it. Has anybody seen Lieutenant Barclay? 
DUFFY: Not yet, sir. 
LAFORGE: Okay. 
(Barclay arrives) 
LAFORGE: Okay. This trip to Nahmi Four is pretty routine, so we'll have
plenty of time to realign the magnetic capacitors on both the matter
and anti-matter injectors. Duffy, Costa, that'll be your assignment. 
DUFFY: We probably ought to do the flow regulator maintenance at the
same time, Commander. 
LAFORGE: That's a good idea. Ensign Crusher will putting in some hours
with us this week as part of his training duties, so I'll be assigning
him to assist you, Mister Myers. Be sure and teach him the difference
between impulse and warp drive, please. Lieutenant Barclay has working
on the mystery of the anti-grav failure we had yesterday. Your
preliminary report had a couple
of interesting theories, Reg. Why don't you bring us all up to speed on
your findings so far. 
BARCLAY: Yes. It wasn't a maintenance problem. Everything checked out.
I, I'm going to check for a surge in the transfer coils. 
WESLEY: A coil surge wouldn't have resulted in field dissipation. 
BARCLAY: I, I, I realise that 
LAFORGE: But we shouldn't ignore the possibilities, Wes. 
WESLEY: You ought to check the flow capacitor. A breakdown of that
could have caused a chain collapse of the antigrav fields. 
BARCLAY: I, I was going to. 
LAFORGE: Good. Okay, then let's go over the realignment procedure.
Gentlemen. 
 [Troi's office]

BARCLAY: I just didn't know what to say. 
TROI: What do you wish you had said? 
BARCLAY: I should have told him to mind his own damned business. I knew
about the flux capacitor. I didn't need to hear about it from some
seventeen year old kid. 
TROI: You're letting it get you much too upset. 
BARCLAY: You think so? 
TROI: Why are you so hard on yourself? 
BARCLAY: You don't know. It's hard out there. 
TROI: I understand, but let go of it. You're here now. 
BARCLAY: You're right, of course. 
TROI: Of course. Let me help you relax. 
(She starts massaging his shoulders) 
BARCLAY: I'd like that. 
TROI: I knew you would. 
(They kiss) 
BARCLAY: That's nice, but I'm in the mood for someplace a little more
unusual. Computer. Run Barclay
programme fifteen. 
(And the office transforms into)

