RIKER LAFORGE WORF VARRIA PICARD WESLEY FAJO COMPUTER CRUSHER DATA

[Observation lounge]

RIKER: Fajo was in the right place at the right
time just when we needed him most. 
PICARD: You're suggesting he created the problem just to solve it? 
RIKER: Possibly. 
LAFORGE: What, to make a profit from his sale of hytritium? 
CRUSHER: It doesn't add up. The cost of producing tricyanate is very
expensive. He wouldn't make a profit on it. Quite the contrary. 
WORF: Then, why would he do it? 
RIKER: What could he want? 
PICARD: Computer, biographical file on trader Kivas Fajo. 
COMPUTER: Accessing file Kivas Fajo. A Zibalian trader of the Stacius
trade guild, educated on Iraaten Five. A noted collector of rare and
valuable objects including the Rejac Crystal, the Starry Night by Van
Gogh, the Lawmim Galactopedia, the Moliam Andi tapestries 
PICARD: Computer, that is sufficient. 
RIKER: A rare and valuable object? 
LAFORGE: What if Data wasn't on that shuttle? 
PICARD: Mister Crusher. 
WESLEY [OC]: Aye, sir. 
PICARD: Set course for the site of the shuttlepod explosion. Warp
eight. 
WESLEY [OC]: Aye, sir. 
[Bridge]

WESLEY: The Jovis has a maximum speed of warp
three. He's had twenty three hours so we can define a perimeter of
point one oh two light years as his possible distance. 
RIKER: Fajo doesn't know that we're onto him, so he probably isn't
taxing his engines at top speed. 
WESLEY: He could have made it to the Nel Bato system, or maybe even the
Giles Belt. 
PICARD: He's a trader. He doesn't attract customers by being hard to
find. 
RIKER: We could put out a coded level two query to all Federation
outposts within the perimeter. 
PICARD: Make it so.

[Fajo's den]

(Data is trying to get into the wall safe when -) 
VARRIA: If I help you escape, will you take me with you? He's sleeping,
and there isn't much time.
DATA: The consequences if we are caught 
VARRIA: I know the consequences. Fourteen years. You learn a few
things. There's an escape pod in the aft cargo bay. 
(She opens the safe and takes the disruptor)

[Bridge]

WORF: Captain, affirmative response from station
Lya Four. 
RIKER: Fajo spent more than half a day in orbit. Departed just over
seven hours ago. 
PICARD: Mister Crusher, new coordinates. Lay in a course for Lya Four. 
WESLEY: Coordinates already laid in, sir.

[Jovis Cargo bay]

DATA: Perhaps I should attempt to communicate with
the Enterprise. 
VARRIA: You can't. Fajo has communications access restricted to the
bridge. Once we're out, the shuttlepod will emit an emergency beacon.
We'll just have to hope somebody responds before Fajo is able to
destroy us. 
DATA: I am trained in evasive manoeuvres. 
VARRIA: We'll need a few. Let's get going. As soon as I start the
escape sequence, an alarm will sound. We won't have much time. 
(Data gets in the pod, Varria goes to a control station and presses
buttons. The alarm sounds, a man runs in. She points the disrupter at
him, then is jumped from behind by another crewman and disarmed. Man
number one cancels the sequence while Data rescues Varria. Data ends up
throwing both men across the bay. They go to start again, when Fajo
enters. The disrupter is lying on the floor. Varria dives for it but
lands short. Fajo aims another disrupter at her. For a moment, he
starts to turn away, then fires. Varria screams for several seconds
before she finally disintegrates. Data comes out of the pod) 
FAJO: It's your fault. You knew the price for disobedience. And so did
she. Well, there's always another Varria. 
(Data picks up the disrupter and points it at Fajo) 
FAJO: You won't hurt me. Fundamental respect for all living beings.
That is what you said. I'm a living being, therefore you can't harm me.

DATA: You will surrender yourself to the authorities. 
FAJO: Or what? You'll fire? Empty threat and we both know it. Why don't
you accept your fate? You will return to your chair and you will sit
there. You will entertain me and you will entertain my guests. And if
you do not, I will simply kill somebody else. Him, perhaps. It doesn't
matter. Their blood will be on your hands too, just like poor Varria's.
Your only alternative, Data, is to fire. Murder me. That's all you have
to do. Go ahead. Fire. If only you could feel rage over Varria's death.
If only you could feel the need for revenge, then maybe you could fire.
But you're just an android. You can't feel anything, can you? It's just
another interesting intellectual puzzle for you. Another of life's
curiosities. 
DATA: I cannot permit this to continue. 
(He levels the disrupter at Fajo again) 
FAJO: Wait. Your programme won't allow you to fire. You cannot fire.
No. 
(A transporter beam takes hold of Data) 
