WESLEY TROI LAFORGE WORF DATA [OC]
protocol complete honour didn ships final talking ship asked

[Geordi's quarters]

(Rest is not coming easily. Dreams are intervening)

DATA [OC]: Proceeding with departure. Enterprise shuttlebay two,
prepare for docking. Level one precautions remain in effect. 
LAFORGE: I did miss something.

[Corridor]

(Deanna is talking to a woman when Worf comes by) 
TROI: (to woman) See you later. (to Worf) Your first watch at Ops? 
WORF: I have served at the position before. 
TROI: I've been concerned about you. 
WORF: About me? Why? 
TROI: Because I know how I'd feel if I was asked to replace Data at his
station.

[Turbolift]

WORF: Bridge. Promotion due to the death of a
crewmate is commonplace on Klingon ships. 
TROI: I know, but this isn't a Klingon ship and Data was your friend.
And it's the second time you've replaced a crewmate who's died. 
WORF: I honour Data's memory, as I did Lieutenant Yar's, by attempting
to perform their duties as well as they did. 
TROI: In true Klingon fashion. 
WORF: I appreciate your concern.

[La Forge's office]

LAFORGE: Computer, now replay shuttle audio
transmission time index zero four two three. This is Data's second
trip. 
DATA [OC]: Proceeding with departure. Enterprise shuttlebay two,
prepare for docking. Level one precautions remain in effect. Shuttle
has cleared the Jovis cargo bay. 
WESLEY: Sounds just like the first trip. 
LAFORGE: Exactly the same. That's protocol. And that's Data. Following
protocol to the letter. Okay, computer, now replay shuttle audio
transmission, time index zero four three nine. Third and final trip. 
DATA [OC]: Loading is complete. I am proceeding with departure.
Enterprise shuttlebay two, prepare for docking. Level one precautions
remain in effect. 
LAFORGE: That's it. That's the last communication. 
WESLEY: He didn't report the shuttle clearing the cargo bay of the
Jovis. 
LAFORGE: Of course, there really wasn't any reason for him to make
voice contact. He knew we'd be monitoring his position. Any other pilot
might not bother, but Data? not following standard procedures? 
WESLEY: What do you think it means? 
LAFORGE: I'm not sure, Wes. I suppose he could've been too busy. Maybe
he saw something was wrong. 
WESLEY: Without communicating it? That doesn't sound like Data either. 
LAFORGE: Which means maybe something was wrong with him. But there's no
other indication of that. Nothing he said or did during the entire
mission. None. I sure wish I could talk to the last people who saw him
alive.

