TROI LAFORGE WORF PICARD RIKER WESLEY FAJO DATA TOFF

[Turbolift]

WORF: Bridge. Promotion due to the death of a
crewmate is commonplace on Klingon ships. 
TROI: I know, but this isn't a Klingon ship and Data was your friend.
And it's the second time you've replaced a crewmate who's died. 
WORF: I honour Data's memory, as I did Lieutenant Yar's, by attempting
to perform their duties as well as they did. 
TROI: In true Klingon fashion. 
WORF: I appreciate your concern.

[La Forge's office]

LAFORGE: Computer, now replay shuttle audio
transmission time index zero four two three. This is Data's second
trip. 
DATA [OC]: Proceeding with departure. Enterprise shuttlebay two,
prepare for docking. Level one precautions remain in effect. Shuttle
has cleared the Jovis cargo bay. 
WESLEY: Sounds just like the first trip. 
LAFORGE: Exactly the same. That's protocol. And that's Data. Following
protocol to the letter. Okay, computer, now replay shuttle audio
transmission, time index zero four three nine. Third and final trip. 
DATA [OC]: Loading is complete. I am proceeding with departure.
Enterprise shuttlebay two, prepare for docking. Level one precautions
remain in effect. 
LAFORGE: That's it. That's the last communication. 
WESLEY: He didn't report the shuttle clearing the cargo bay of the
Jovis. 
LAFORGE: Of course, there really wasn't any reason for him to make
voice contact. He knew we'd be monitoring his position. Any other pilot
might not bother, but Data? not following standard procedures? 
WESLEY: What do you think it means? 
LAFORGE: I'm not sure, Wes. I suppose he could've been too busy. Maybe
he saw something was wrong. 
WESLEY: Without communicating it? That doesn't sound like Data either. 
LAFORGE: Which means maybe something was wrong with him. But there's no
other indication of that. Nothing he said or did during the entire
mission. None. I sure wish I could talk to the last people who saw him
alive.

[Fajo's den]

(Data is in the overall when Fajo and Varria enter
with a guest) 
TOFF: I've added a Veltan sex idol to my collection. 
FAJO: I've got four of them. 
TOFF: What? With the pearls intact? 
FAJO: Please. Pearls were added by the Ferengi agents to increase the
value. 
TOFF: What is that? Something new? And you didn't tell me. 
FAJO: Mister Data, I'm delighted to see that you dressed for the
occasion. Say hello to my very good friend, Palor Toff. 
(Data remains still and silence. Passive resistance in action) 
FAJO: Data, say hello. No need to be shy. 
TOFF: It's a mannequin of some sort. 
FAJO: This is not a mannequin. This is Data. This is formerly
Lieutenant Commander Data of the Federation Starfleet. The only
sentient
android in existence. 
TOFF: It doesn't seem particularly sentient right now. 
FAJO: That's because it's playing a stupid little game with us. 
TOFF: Well, someone has certainly played a game on you, Fajo. 
FAJO: I don't find this amusing. I demand that you behave normally.
Behave normally! I know you can hear me! 
(Fajo raises his hand to Data, which means the proximity field hits,
and Data topples forward stiff as a board) 
TOFF: He falls well. 
FAJO: I apologize for this. 
TOFF: Do not be upset, my friend. I'm having a delightful visit. Come
along, Varria. You're much more fun to play with than Fajo's new toy. 
FAJO: (to Data) You'll regret this.

[Bridge]

WESLEY: Now entering the Beta Agni system, sir. 
RIKER: Take us to half impulse, Mister Crusher. 
LAFORGE [OC]: La Forge to bridge. 
PICARD: Go ahead, Commander. 
LAFORGE [OC]: Captain. 
