RIKER LAFORGE VARRIA PICARD DATA [OC] FAJO DATA
liquid shame belong loyalty rationalise lavish inhibition sense wasted

[Fajo's den]

VARRIA: Kivas wishes you to wear this set of
clothes, and to sit in your chair. 
DATA: I have no reason to accede to Mister Fajo's wishes. 
VARRIA: He will give you reasons if you force him to. 
DATA: Mister Fajo is deluding himself if he believes he can keep me
here. The Enterprise is certain to find me. 
VARRIA: They're not even looking for you. They think you're destroyed.
Your shuttle blew up. A hytritium explosion. 
DATA: They will scan the debris and discover I was not aboard. 
VARRIA: They'll find exactly what they thought they'd find. Traces of
your component elements. We put them aboard the shuttle in just the
right proportions. 
DATA: Clearly, Mister Fajo has no moral difficulty with my imprisonment
here. 
VARRIA: Mister Fajo has no moral difficulties at all. 
DATA: Do you? 
VARRIA: Clever, android. Is it part of your programme to seek out
vulnerabilities in your enemies? 
DATA: Yes. Are you my enemy? 
VARRIA: I obey Fajo. And so does everyone on this ship. 
DATA: Why? 
VARRIA: You are a curious thing, aren't you? 
DATA: Do you object to the question? 
VARRIA: Kivas finds a way to get what he wants from his people. His
rewards for loyalty are lavish. His punishments for disloyalty are
equally lavish. You won't find anyone here on this ship to help you
escape. Face it, android. He has you. 
DATA: It appears he has us both.

[Ready room]

LAFORGE: The reason I can't find anything is that
there's nothing there to find. I've run this analysis dozens of times
over and there's just no indication of any malfunction. 
RIKER: No possible explanation at all? 
LAFORGE: Yeah, there's one, but I don't believe it. Pilot error. 
PICARD: I know it's hard to accept, but even the best 
LAFORGE: Captain, it's not only hard to accept, with Data it's
impossible. I mean, I can't even begin to calculate the odds. If Data
were here, we could ask him. 
PICARD: What are you suggesting, Lieutenant? 
LAFORGE: I don't know, sir. It just doesn't make sense, and I like
things to make sense, that's all. 
RIKER: Geordi, maybe if you get a little rest and came at this thing
fresh. 
LAFORGE: A little rest isn't going to change the computer analysis,
Commander. 
PICARD: I'm sure you have done a complete investigation, and if you
wish to continue it, of course you have my support. But we shall be
reaching the Beta Agni system shortly, and I expect you to be rested. 
LAFORGE: I understand, sir. 
PICARD: Dismissed. Geordi, I understand how much we want, even need, to
explain an accident like this. Sometimes there just aren't any
explanations. 
(La Forge leaves) 
RIKER: For an android with no feelings, he sure managed to evoke them
in others. 
PICARD: We must select an officer to replace Data at Ops.
Recommendations? 
RIKER: Worf would be my first choice, sir. 
PICARD: Mine as well. Make it so. 
(Picard opens the copy of Shakespeare that has been returned to him at
Data's bookmark. It's
Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 2) 
PICARD: (reading) 
He was a man, taken for all in all. I shall not look upon his like
again. 
[Fajo's den]

(Data is feeding the lapling when Fajo enters) 
FAJO: You are still wearing that uniform. Why? 
DATA: I am a Starfleet officer. 
FAJO: You are not in Starfleet any longer. It's time you adjusted your
programme
to accept reality. 
DATA: Even if I chose to do so, it is doubtful that my programming
could be sufficiently altered to accede to your wishes. 
FAJO: Oh? 
DATA: I have been designed with a fundamental respect for life in all
its forms and a strong inhibition against causing harm to living
beings. 
FAJO: What a marvellous contradiction. A military pacifist. Tell me,
whose dreadful decision was it to enlist you in Starfleet to begin
with? 
DATA: My skills seemed appropriate 
FAJO: Data, Data, Data. Big mistake. A grievous error. You belong in
Starfleet about as much as I belong in a verbal contract. Tell me, have
you killed yet? 
DATA: No, but I am programmed with the ability to use deadly force in
the cause of defense. 
FAJO: Shame on you. Shame on you. How neatly you rationalise your
capabilities. How can you just casually accept your role in murder? 
DATA: I would not participate in murder. Perhaps you misunderstand. 
FAJO: Can't you see how much better it will be for you right here? The
intellectual rewards alone. Our personal exploration of the
galaxy. I am at war with no one. I am your liberator. 
DATA: You are a fine debater, sir. It is a pity you have used your
verbal gifts for mere hucksterism and the advancement of your own
greed. 
FAJO: Perhaps. Perhaps you would not judge me so harshly if you knew of
my desperate youth, wasted, wasted on the streets of Zimballia. 
DATA: Your past does not excuse unethical or immoral behaviour, sir. 
FAJO: Well, it doesn't matter. It isn't true anyway. My father was
quite wealthy, actually. He was a thief. Data, why don't you put on
these lovely new clothes and sit on the chair. 
DATA: I must decline. 
FAJO: You are going to be much more of a challenge than I had first
thought. (goes to replicator) Finoplak, one hundred denkirs. (A vial of
liquid appears) Now, Data, in the meantime, here is something for your
logic circuits to analyse. 
(Fajo thrown the liquid onto Data's uniform, which begins to smoke and
dissolve) 
FAJO: Oh, don't worry. The solvent won't harm your, your skin. But in
seconds it will completely dissolve that uniform. Personally, I'd be
delighted to see you go around naked. I assume you have no modesty.
But, then, I guess that decency is the rule of your Starfleet training.
In any case, Data, why don't you make a decision about which
alternative you dislike the least. Make a decision by dinnertime
tonight. I have invited a guest to meet you, and I expect you to be as
entertaining with him as you have been with me.

[Geordi's quarters]

(Rest is not coming easily. Dreams are intervening)

DATA [OC]: Proceeding with departure. Enterprise shuttlebay two,
prepare for docking. Level one precautions remain in effect. 
LAFORGE: I did miss something.

