RIKER LAFORGE WORF VARRIA PICARD DATA [OC] FAJO [on viewscreen] WESLEY DATA
padd point acknowledge able bay remain stand hatch sensors

[Bridge]

DATA [OC]: The remaining cases of hytritium are now
being loaded.
PICARD: Acknowledged. Mister Worf, advise Beta Agni Two that our
departure is imminent. 
WORF: Aye, Captain. 
RIKER: At warp six, we should be there in just over sixteen hours.

[Jovis Cargo bay]

(The rear hatch on shuttlepod Pike closes and Data
gets into the pilot's seat) 
DATA: Loading is complete. I am proceeding with departure. Enterprise
shuttlebay two, prepare for docking, level one
precautions for incoming material remain in effect. 
VARRIA: If you'll just acknowledge this last load, Commander 
(Data puts his thumb on the PADD and is enveloped in electricity. He is
knocked out cold. Varria takes back the PADD then she scans him) 
VARRIA: Twenty six point eight kilos of tripolymer composites. Eleven
point eight kilos of molybdenum-cobalt alloy. One point three kilos
Bioplast sheeting. 
[Bridge]

LAFORGE: Shuttle twelve containment field reads
nominal. Now leaving the Jovis. 
PICARD: On viewer. 
LAFORGE: Containment field stable. Gravitational fluctuations within
acceptable parameters. Flight pattern 
(Shuttlepod Pike goes Ka-BOOM! Stunned expressions all round)
WORF: Data. 
Captain's log, supplemental. As the result of a yet
unexplained shuttle explosion, Lieutenant Commander Data has been lost.

[Bridge]

RIKER: Why didn't the containment field hold? 
LAFORGE: Unknown, Commander. 
PICARD: Hail the Jovis. I want to speak with Kivas Fajo. 
WORF: Sir, Mister Fajo is hailing us. 
PICARD: On viewer. 
FAJO [on viewscreen]: Captain Picard, what happened? 
PICARD: It's unclear. We're running a full analysis. 
FAJO [on viewscreen]: We detected no malfunctions before the explosion.
Everything seemed to be running as smoothly as the other flights. Were
you able to save the pilot? 
PICARD: No. 
FAJO [on viewscreen]: I'm sorry. 
PICARD: Mister Fajo, I would like to analyse your sensor readings of
the explosion. 
FAJO [on viewscreen]: Compared to the Enterprise's, our sensors are
rather primitive. I doubt they contain any information that your
sensors overlooked. 
PICARD: Perhaps, but I don't want to leave any avenue unexplored. 
FAJO [on viewscreen]: I understand. We'll transmit the information. 
WORF: Link established. Receiving. 
FAJO [on viewscreen]: Can we be of any further assistance? 
PICARD: How much hytritium did we manage to bring on board? 
RIKER: Eighty one kilos. 
LAFORGE: That will barely allow us to complete our mission, Captain,
but it leaves us no margin for error. 
PICARD: Mister Fajo, I realise we have acquired your complete supply of
hytritium. Do you know where we could obtain some more? 
FAJO [on viewscreen]: That may be difficult. The only source I know is
in the Sigma Erani system. 
RIKER: Three weeks away, sir. 
FAJO [on viewscreen]: And I can't guarantee they'll have any. For
obvious reasons, no one wants to keep it around. In fact, even I may
stop selling it. It's just too dangerous. 
RIKER: I guess we're fortunate you had any at all, sir. 
WORF: Captain, transfer of information complete. 
PICARD: Mister Fajo, thank you for your help. 
(transmission ends) 
PICARD: Mister Crusher, set a course for the Beta Agni Two system, warp
six. 
WESLEY: Aye, sir. 
RIKER: The Grissom is near the Sigma Erani system. I'll alert them to
stand by in case we need more hytritium. 
PICARD: Thank you, Number One. 
WESLEY: Course laid in, sir. 
PICARD: Engage.

