RIKER LAFORGE WORF VARRIA PICARD WESLEY FAJO COMPUTER CRUSHER DATA

[Fajo's den]

(Data is trying to imitate La Gioconda's smile. I
wonder if this is one of the copies Doctor Who wrote 'this is a fake'
on?) 
FAJO: I would very much like our relationship to change. 
DATA: You may expect me to use every means at my disposal to resist
your wishes. 
FAJO: Why can't you just comply? Why do you argue all the time?
Couldn't you just go sit on the chair? Come on. Go on, sit on the
chair. 
DATA: I do not intend to sit in the chair. 
FAJO: You will. You may believe it right now, but you will. 
(There is a wall safe behind one of his display items, a necklace. Fajo
tries to hide the combination from Data, then removes a gun) 
FAJO: Have you ever seen one of these, Data? 
DATA: It is a disruptor. 
FAJO: Well, no. It's a prototype for a Varon-T disruptor. 
DATA: The Varon-T disruptor is banned in the Federation. 
FAJO: Oh, yes. They only manufactured five of them. I own four. I sleep
with one under my pillow at night, and I sleep very well knowing it's
there too. Do you know why? 
DATA: It is a most lethal weapon. 
FAJO: It's not just lethal. It's vicious. It tears a body apart, inside
out, and very slowly too by your phaser standards. It's tortuous. A
very, very painful death. I've always wanted to try this. 
DATA: It is doubtful you will destroy me since you assign so much value
to possessing me. 
FAJO: That goes without saying. Please come in. 
(Varria enters) 
FAJO: Varria, how long have we been together, my dear? 
VARRIA: Fourteen years. 
FAJO: Fourteen wonderful years they were too. She was barely an adult
when I found her. She was idealistic, naive, full of dreams. And I made
those dreams come true, too, didn't I? I'm going to miss you. 
(Fajo points the disruptor at Varria) 
DATA: Fajo. 
(Data is sitting on the chair)

[Beta Agni Two]

(The three beam down onto rock ledges just above
the water) 
CRUSHER: The contamination's been neutralised. The water's clean. 
WORF: Curious. The process of neutralisation should have taken several
hours. Naturally
occurring tricyanate does not respond this quickly. 
RIKER: Are you saying it's not naturally occurring? 
WORF: There are no natural trace elements present in these tricyanate
crystals. 
RIKER: If it's artificial, then we're talking about sabotage. 
CRUSHER: With tricyanate? That's hard to believe. It's slow to
assimilate, difficult to replicate, and hard to transport. There are a
lot easier ways to poison a water supply. More effective ways too. 
RIKER: Can you think of any reason a saboteur would choose tricyanate? 
CRUSHER: It might pass for a natural disaster. And since there's only
one way to treat it, with hytritium, maybe somebody figured we couldn't
locate it. It is hard to find. 
RIKER: Then it really was lucky, wasn't it, that we were able to find
hytritium when we did. And just enough hytritium for this crisis? 
[Observation lounge]

RIKER: Fajo was in the right place at the right
time just when we needed him most. 
PICARD: You're suggesting he created the problem just to solve it? 
RIKER: Possibly. 
LAFORGE: What, to make a profit from his sale of hytritium? 
CRUSHER: It doesn't add up. The cost of producing tricyanate is very
expensive. He wouldn't make a profit on it. Quite the contrary. 
WORF: Then, why would he do it? 
RIKER: What could he want? 
PICARD: Computer, biographical file on trader Kivas Fajo. 
COMPUTER: Accessing file Kivas Fajo. A Zibalian trader of the Stacius
trade guild, educated on Iraaten Five. A noted collector of rare and
valuable objects including the Rejac Crystal, the Starry Night by Van
Gogh, the Lawmim Galactopedia, the Moliam Andi tapestries 
PICARD: Computer, that is sufficient. 
RIKER: A rare and valuable object? 
LAFORGE: What if Data wasn't on that shuttle? 
PICARD: Mister Crusher. 
WESLEY [OC]: Aye, sir. 
PICARD: Set course for the site of the shuttlepod explosion. Warp
eight. 
WESLEY [OC]: Aye, sir. 
[Bridge]

WESLEY: The Jovis has a maximum speed of warp
three. He's had twenty three hours so we can define a perimeter of
point one oh two light years as his possible distance. 
RIKER: Fajo doesn't know that we're onto him, so he probably isn't
taxing his engines at top speed. 
WESLEY: He could have made it to the Nel Bato system, or maybe even the
Giles Belt. 
PICARD: He's a trader. He doesn't attract customers by being hard to
find. 
RIKER: We could put out a coded level two query to all Federation
outposts within the perimeter. 
PICARD: Make it so.

[Fajo's den]

(Data is trying to get into the wall safe when -) 
VARRIA: If I help you escape, will you take me with you? He's sleeping,
and there isn't much time.
DATA: The consequences if we are caught 
VARRIA: I know the consequences. Fourteen years. You learn a few
things. There's an escape pod in the aft cargo bay. 
(She opens the safe and takes the disruptor)

