RIKER LAFORGE WORF VARRIA PICARD WESLEY FAJO DATA

[Bridge]

RIKER: Why didn't the containment field hold? 
LAFORGE: Unknown, Commander. 
PICARD: Hail the Jovis. I want to speak with Kivas Fajo. 
WORF: Sir, Mister Fajo is hailing us. 
PICARD: On viewer. 
FAJO [on viewscreen]: Captain Picard, what happened? 
PICARD: It's unclear. We're running a full analysis. 
FAJO [on viewscreen]: We detected no malfunctions before the explosion.
Everything seemed to be running as smoothly as the other flights. Were
you able to save the pilot? 
PICARD: No. 
FAJO [on viewscreen]: I'm sorry. 
PICARD: Mister Fajo, I would like to analyse your sensor readings of
the explosion. 
FAJO [on viewscreen]: Compared to the Enterprise's, our sensors are
rather primitive. I doubt they contain any information that your
sensors overlooked. 
PICARD: Perhaps, but I don't want to leave any avenue unexplored. 
FAJO [on viewscreen]: I understand. We'll transmit the information. 
WORF: Link established. Receiving. 
FAJO [on viewscreen]: Can we be of any further assistance? 
PICARD: How much hytritium did we manage to bring on board? 
RIKER: Eighty one kilos. 
LAFORGE: That will barely allow us to complete our mission, Captain,
but it leaves us no margin for error. 
PICARD: Mister Fajo, I realise we have acquired your complete supply of
hytritium. Do you know where we could obtain some more? 
FAJO [on viewscreen]: That may be difficult. The only source I know is
in the Sigma Erani system. 
RIKER: Three weeks away, sir. 
FAJO [on viewscreen]: And I can't guarantee they'll have any. For
obvious reasons, no one wants to keep it around. In fact, even I may
stop selling it. It's just too dangerous. 
RIKER: I guess we're fortunate you had any at all, sir. 
WORF: Captain, transfer of information complete. 
PICARD: Mister Fajo, thank you for your help. 
(transmission ends) 
PICARD: Mister Crusher, set a course for the Beta Agni Two system, warp
six. 
WESLEY: Aye, sir. 
RIKER: The Grissom is near the Sigma Erani system. I'll alert them to
stand by in case we need more hytritium. 
PICARD: Thank you, Number One. 
WESLEY: Course laid in, sir. 
PICARD: Engage.

[Fajo's den]

(It's a large, clean room with ornamentation
arranged on display around the walls and a red circular seat in the
middle. The rigid Data is currently laid across it. He suddenly reboots
and sits up. His communicator is gone) 
DATA: What am I doing here? 
(Fajo and Varria enter) 
FAJO: Wondrous. The detail. The balance. Was I not right, Varria? What
a remarkable piece of work. 
DATA: Why have I been brought here? 
FAJO: The voice simulation. it's perfection. The inflections, the
timing. 
(Fajo snaps his fingers to test Data's responses, then speaks to him as
if Data does not understand English, complete with gestures) 
FAJO: It took great effort. Effort. to bring you here. I was sure he'd
be worth it. I was right. 
DATA: I've been delivered here against my wishes. I would like to know
the reason. 
FAJO: Certainly. You have been brought here for my enjoyment and my
appreciation. 
DATA: Am I to infer that you intend to keep me captive? 
FAJO: Captive? Captive? That's such an inappropriate description. My
dear android. May I call you Data? 
DATA: It is my name. 
FAJO: Data. You will be catered to, fawned over, cared for as you never
have been before. Your every wish will be fulfilled 
DATA: I wish to leave. 
FAJO: Almost every wish. 
DATA: This is unacceptable, sir. I have no desire to remain here and
even if I did, my Starfleet duties would not allow it. 
FAJO: It's so single minded, isn't it? 
VARRIA: Very persistent. 
FAJO: But it's very polite, which is a very nice touch. I decline to
allow you to go. 
DATA: Then I am forced to attempt escape. 
(Data tries to force the door open) 
FAJO: Ten androids just like you might be able to force that thing
open. But then again, there aren't any more just like you, are there?
It's keyed to galvanic skin responses and DNA patterns. Sorry. 
DATA: Then you will have to open it for me. 
(But as soon as Data gets to almost arms reach of Fajo, he is stopped
by a green forcefield. He tries again at a run and is thrown back
across the room) 
FAJO: Oh. Really, I wouldn't do that again if I were you. This is a
proximity-actuated field. It impedes positron flow.
It's very bad for the brainpaths in the long term. 
DATA: I fail to understand the value you place on my presence. 
FAJO: Well, just look around the room. There are items her gathered
from half the galaxy. Right here. This is the very first Basotile ever
created. (a sort of avant-guard sculpture) Sorry. (Fajo moves so Data
can see it) It's very, very ancient. Hundreds of years old. It's
priceless. 
(He goes past a beautiful porcelain urn on a stand to an orange
rectangular thing) 
FAJO: Come. This vase is made by Mark, the late Mark Off-Zel from
Sirrie Four. (painting) Dali. This is the only known Roger Maris
trading card from Earth circa 1962. The smell? Bubblegum. I've
preserved the scent. What? A Lapling. 
(A glove puppet with huge blue eyes in a case) 
DATA: I thought they were extinct. 
FAJO: Extinct? Good. That is what is generally believed. She is the
last surviving member of her species. They're very defenseless
creatures, really.
Everything that you see in the room here, everything. One of its kind.
Unique. All original. Just as you are. There. (a chair) That is your
place of honour. Sit, sit. Sit! You think perhaps it might be
uncomfortable? But then again, you don't give a thought to comfort, do
you. (to Varria) When Palor Toff learns of that, he'll swallow his
tongue with envy. I can't wait to see his face. You are the crown jewel
of my
collection. You're a treasure beyond comparison. 
(The comm. beeps) 
VARRIA: Yes, go ahead. 
FAJO: I think you should be flattered. 
DATA: I am not, sir. Most intelligent lifeforms find involuntary
confinement offensive and inequitable. Moreover, you have
violated Federation law 
FAJO: I know, I know. What I've done is evil, selfish, immoral,
unprincipled, illegal. Well, I've learned to live with it. 
VARRIA: The Andorians wish to make a bid on the shipment of Tellurian
spices you offered. 
FAJO: They've had four days to decide! Why do they have to decide
right! Sorry. 
DATA: I must emphasize, Mister Fajo, that I consider this captivity a
hostile act on your part. 
FAJO: You'll get used to it.

[Data's quarters]

WESLEY: I can't believe he's gone. 
LAFORGE: I always thought he'd outlive us, by centuries. 
(Wesley uncovers a painting) 
WESLEY: He'd been working on this for months. He never felt it was
quite finished. 
LAFORGE: You know what a critic Data was, especially about his own
work. 
(Geordi opens a drawer and takes out a book. Shakespeare, I think) 
WESLEY: That was a gift from the Captain. 
LAFORGE: And he should have it back. 
(Cards and poker chips) 
WESLEY: Those should go to Commander Riker. 
LAFORGE: Data always fell for Riker's bluffs. 
(A box with eight medals in it) 
WESLEY: These are some of Starfleet's highest honours. 
LAFORGE: Not bad for a walking pile of circuitry and memory cells. 
(and the hologram of Tasha Yar)
LAFORGE: You know, I keep going over and over the accident in my mind,
trying to figure out what went wrong. I can see Data in the shuttle,
almost like I'm sitting there next to him going through the departure
sequence. What the hell happened? Why didn't I see
it coming? What am I missing?

[Fajo's den]

VARRIA: Kivas wishes you to wear this set of
clothes, and to sit in your chair. 
DATA: I have no reason to accede to Mister Fajo's wishes. 
VARRIA: He will give you reasons if you force him to. 
DATA: Mister Fajo is deluding himself if he believes he can keep me
here. The Enterprise is certain to find me. 
VARRIA: They're not even looking for you. They think you're destroyed.
Your shuttle blew up. A hytritium explosion. 
DATA: They will scan the debris and discover I was not aboard. 
VARRIA: They'll find exactly what they thought they'd find. Traces of
your component elements. We put them aboard the shuttle in just the
right proportions. 
DATA: Clearly, Mister Fajo has no moral difficulty with my imprisonment
here. 
VARRIA: Mister Fajo has no moral difficulties at all. 
DATA: Do you? 
VARRIA: Clever, android. Is it part of your programme to seek out
vulnerabilities in your enemies? 
DATA: Yes. Are you my enemy? 
VARRIA: I obey Fajo. And so does everyone on this ship. 
DATA: Why? 
VARRIA: You are a curious thing, aren't you? 
DATA: Do you object to the question? 
VARRIA: Kivas finds a way to get what he wants from his people. His
rewards for loyalty are lavish. His punishments for disloyalty are
equally lavish. You won't find anyone here on this ship to help you
escape. Face it, android. He has you. 
DATA: It appears he has us both.

