RIKER LAFORGE VARRIA PICARD WESLEY FAJO DATA
believes hytritium decide sense cards mark effort change nice

[Fajo's den]

(It's a large, clean room with ornamentation
arranged on display around the walls and a red circular seat in the
middle. The rigid Data is currently laid across it. He suddenly reboots
and sits up. His communicator is gone) 
DATA: What am I doing here? 
(Fajo and Varria enter) 
FAJO: Wondrous. The detail. The balance. Was I not right, Varria? What
a remarkable piece of work. 
DATA: Why have I been brought here? 
FAJO: The voice simulation. it's perfection. The inflections, the
timing. 
(Fajo snaps his fingers to test Data's responses, then speaks to him as
if Data does not understand English, complete with gestures) 
FAJO: It took great effort. Effort. to bring you here. I was sure he'd
be worth it. I was right. 
DATA: I've been delivered here against my wishes. I would like to know
the reason. 
FAJO: Certainly. You have been brought here for my enjoyment and my
appreciation. 
DATA: Am I to infer that you intend to keep me captive? 
FAJO: Captive? Captive? That's such an inappropriate description. My
dear android. May I call you Data? 
DATA: It is my name. 
FAJO: Data. You will be catered to, fawned over, cared for as you never
have been before. Your every wish will be fulfilled 
DATA: I wish to leave. 
FAJO: Almost every wish. 
DATA: This is unacceptable, sir. I have no desire to remain here and
even if I did, my Starfleet duties would not allow it. 
FAJO: It's so single minded, isn't it? 
VARRIA: Very persistent. 
FAJO: But it's very polite, which is a very nice touch. I decline to
allow you to go. 
DATA: Then I am forced to attempt escape. 
(Data tries to force the door open) 
FAJO: Ten androids just like you might be able to force that thing
open. But then again, there aren't any more just like you, are there?
It's keyed to galvanic skin responses and DNA patterns. Sorry. 
DATA: Then you will have to open it for me. 
(But as soon as Data gets to almost arms reach of Fajo, he is stopped
by a green forcefield. He tries again at a run and is thrown back
across the room) 
FAJO: Oh. Really, I wouldn't do that again if I were you. This is a
proximity-actuated field. It impedes positron flow.
It's very bad for the brainpaths in the long term. 
DATA: I fail to understand the value you place on my presence. 
FAJO: Well, just look around the room. There are items her gathered
from half the galaxy. Right here. This is the very first Basotile ever
created. (a sort of avant-guard sculpture) Sorry. (Fajo moves so Data
can see it) It's very, very ancient. Hundreds of years old. It's
priceless. 
(He goes past a beautiful porcelain urn on a stand to an orange
rectangular thing) 
FAJO: Come. This vase is made by Mark, the late Mark Off-Zel from
Sirrie Four. (painting) Dali. This is the only known Roger Maris
trading card from Earth circa 1962. The smell? Bubblegum. I've
preserved the scent. What? A Lapling. 
(A glove puppet with huge blue eyes in a case) 
DATA: I thought they were extinct. 
FAJO: Extinct? Good. That is what is generally believed. She is the
last surviving member of her species. They're very defenseless
creatures, really.
Everything that you see in the room here, everything. One of its kind.
Unique. All original. Just as you are. There. (a chair) That is your
place of honour. Sit, sit. Sit! You think perhaps it might be
uncomfortable? But then again, you don't give a thought to comfort, do
you. (to Varria) When Palor Toff learns of that, he'll swallow his
tongue with envy. I can't wait to see his face. You are the crown jewel
of my
collection. You're a treasure beyond comparison. 
(The comm. beeps) 
VARRIA: Yes, go ahead. 
FAJO: I think you should be flattered. 
DATA: I am not, sir. Most intelligent lifeforms find involuntary
confinement offensive and inequitable. Moreover, you have
violated Federation law 
FAJO: I know, I know. What I've done is evil, selfish, immoral,
unprincipled, illegal. Well, I've learned to live with it. 
VARRIA: The Andorians wish to make a bid on the shipment of Tellurian
spices you offered. 
FAJO: They've had four days to decide! Why do they have to decide
right! Sorry. 
DATA: I must emphasize, Mister Fajo, that I consider this captivity a
hostile act on your part. 
FAJO: You'll get used to it.

[Data's quarters]

WESLEY: I can't believe he's gone. 
LAFORGE: I always thought he'd outlive us, by centuries. 
(Wesley uncovers a painting) 
WESLEY: He'd been working on this for months. He never felt it was
quite finished. 
LAFORGE: You know what a critic Data was, especially about his own
work. 
(Geordi opens a drawer and takes out a book. Shakespeare, I think) 
WESLEY: That was a gift from the Captain. 
LAFORGE: And he should have it back. 
(Cards and poker chips) 
WESLEY: Those should go to Commander Riker. 
LAFORGE: Data always fell for Riker's bluffs. 
(A box with eight medals in it) 
WESLEY: These are some of Starfleet's highest honours. 
LAFORGE: Not bad for a walking pile of circuitry and memory cells. 
(and the hologram of Tasha Yar)
LAFORGE: You know, I keep going over and over the accident in my mind,
trying to figure out what went wrong. I can see Data in the shuttle,
almost like I'm sitting there next to him going through the departure
sequence. What the hell happened? Why didn't I see
it coming? What am I missing?

[Fajo's den]

VARRIA: Kivas wishes you to wear this set of
clothes, and to sit in your chair. 
DATA: I have no reason to accede to Mister Fajo's wishes. 
VARRIA: He will give you reasons if you force him to. 
DATA: Mister Fajo is deluding himself if he believes he can keep me
here. The Enterprise is certain to find me. 
VARRIA: They're not even looking for you. They think you're destroyed.
Your shuttle blew up. A hytritium explosion. 
DATA: They will scan the debris and discover I was not aboard. 
VARRIA: They'll find exactly what they thought they'd find. Traces of
your component elements. We put them aboard the shuttle in just the
right proportions. 
DATA: Clearly, Mister Fajo has no moral difficulty with my imprisonment
here. 
VARRIA: Mister Fajo has no moral difficulties at all. 
DATA: Do you? 
VARRIA: Clever, android. Is it part of your programme to seek out
vulnerabilities in your enemies? 
DATA: Yes. Are you my enemy? 
VARRIA: I obey Fajo. And so does everyone on this ship. 
DATA: Why? 
VARRIA: You are a curious thing, aren't you? 
DATA: Do you object to the question? 
VARRIA: Kivas finds a way to get what he wants from his people. His
rewards for loyalty are lavish. His punishments for disloyalty are
equally lavish. You won't find anyone here on this ship to help you
escape. Face it, android. He has you. 
DATA: It appears he has us both.

[Ready room]

LAFORGE: The reason I can't find anything is that
there's nothing there to find. I've run this analysis dozens of times
over and there's just no indication of any malfunction. 
RIKER: No possible explanation at all? 
LAFORGE: Yeah, there's one, but I don't believe it. Pilot error. 
PICARD: I know it's hard to accept, but even the best 
LAFORGE: Captain, it's not only hard to accept, with Data it's
impossible. I mean, I can't even begin to calculate the odds. If Data
were here, we could ask him. 
PICARD: What are you suggesting, Lieutenant? 
LAFORGE: I don't know, sir. It just doesn't make sense, and I like
things to make sense, that's all. 
RIKER: Geordi, maybe if you get a little rest and came at this thing
fresh. 
LAFORGE: A little rest isn't going to change the computer analysis,
Commander. 
PICARD: I'm sure you have done a complete investigation, and if you
wish to continue it, of course you have my support. But we shall be
reaching the Beta Agni system shortly, and I expect you to be rested. 
LAFORGE: I understand, sir. 
PICARD: Dismissed. Geordi, I understand how much we want, even need, to
explain an accident like this. Sometimes there just aren't any
explanations. 
(La Forge leaves) 
RIKER: For an android with no feelings, he sure managed to evoke them
in others. 
PICARD: We must select an officer to replace Data at Ops.
Recommendations? 
RIKER: Worf would be my first choice, sir. 
PICARD: Mine as well. Make it so. 
(Picard opens the copy of Shakespeare that has been returned to him at
Data's bookmark. It's
Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 2) 
PICARD: (reading) 
He was a man, taken for all in all. I shall not look upon his like
again. 
