PICARD RIKER CRUSHER PERRIN SAREK
conference ve suppress admit emotions trepidation small approve came

[Ready room]

RIKER: We're entering the Legaran system, sir.
Shall I have Mister Worf contact their ambassador? 
PICARD: No. I will present our regrets to the Legarans personally. It
is vital that they understand our reasons for cancelling these
negotiations. 
RIKER: Captain, I think you did the right thing. 
PICARD: But at what cost, Number One? 
(door bell) 
PICARD: Come. Perrin? 
PERRIN: I must speak with you, Captain. 
RIKER: I'll be on the Bridge, sir. 
(Riker leaves) 
PICARD: How is the Ambassador? 
PERRIN: Resting. I've come to ask you to reconsider your position. 
PICARD: You know that is impossible. 
PERRIN: Sarek is a good man. He's given the Federation a lifetime of
service. I beg you to let him keep the respect he has earned. 
PICARD: He'll never lose that respect. 
PERRIN: Mendrossen and I never wanted to deceive you. My husband's
condition came on him so gradually it was so easy to delude ourselves
and pretend that nothing was wrong. We convinced ourselves that he
could complete this one last task and end his career with dignity. Help
him, Captain. Help him regain his pride, his honour. 
PICARD: Believe me, it would give me great pleasure, but there is
nothing I can do. 
PERRIN: The mission can be saved. But he needs your help to do it.

[Conference room]

SAREK: A mind-meld? Between the two of us? Do you
realise the dangers involved in what you are proposing, Captain? 
PICARD: Yes, I do, Ambassador. But I also realise the potential
benefits. 
SAREK: We would be linked telepathically, sharing our thoughts,
becoming in essence one mind. 
PICARD: Which, for a few hours, should provide the emotional control
you need. In that time, you can meet with the Legarans and conclude the
treaty. 
SAREK: It is a generous offer. But I must warn you that while I would
gain your stability, you would experience the fierce onslaught of
emotions unleashed by my condition. Vulcan emotions are extremely
intense. We have learned to suppress them. No human would be able to
control them. They would overwhelm you. The mind-meld can be a terrible
intimacy. I cannot allow it. 
PICARD: I'm aware of the risks. But it is the only logical solution. 
SAREK: Your courage honours me, Captain.

[Picard's quarters]

CRUSHER: I can't say I approve of this, Jean-Luc. 
PICARD: I didn't expect that you would, Beverly. 
CRUSHER: I don't suppose I could talk you out of it? 
PICARD: I'm afraid not, though I do admit to a certain trepidation.
Your company is much appreciated. 
(doorbell chime) 
PICARD: Come. 
SAREK: I see that you are ready, Captain. 
PICARD: Doctor Crusher will monitor our responses. 
SAREK: A sensible precaution. 
(They sit on opposite sides of a small table, then Sarek reaches across
to Picard in the time-honoured fashion) 
SAREK: My mind to your mind. Your thoughts to my thoughts. 
