TROI LAFORGE WORF PICARD MENDROSSEN RIKER CRUSHER DATA

[Ten Forward]

(And they walk straight into an old-fashioned bar
brawl) 
WORF: I see what you mean. 
(Worf stops two men strangling Geordi) 
WORF: Security team to Ten Forward. 
RIKER: Geordi, what the hell is going on here? 
LAFORGE: I wish I knew. 
RIKER: All right, that's enough! 
(And he gets punched in the face) 
(Later, the staff are clearing up the broken furniture, and the medics
the broken crew) 
LAFORGE: The next thing I know somebody's left hook is on its way to my
chin. 
TROI: Captain, this is not an isolated incident. There have been
reports of random violence all over the ship. 
PICARD: Are you suggesting this is somehow contagious? 
CRUSHER: There's no indication of any bacteria or virus. I've run every
test I know. I've checked the water, food replicators, airborne
samples. 
PICARD: This is a hell of a time. Whatever it is, I don't want it to
affect the Ambassador. I want his quarters isolated from the rest of
the crew until we've identified the cause. 
TROI: It's not that simple, Captain. 
CRUSHER: We have determined that the outbreak of violence started at
virtually the same time Sarek and his party beamed onto the ship.

[Crusher's office]

CRUSHER: We do have a working theory. We believe
that it's possible Ambassador Sarek himself is responsible for these
incidents. 
PICARD: Sarek? 
TROI: I felt something during the concert. Vague and undefined, but
very disturbing 
PICARD: He cried. I saw that. I couldn't believe it. A Vulcan moved to
tears by music? It's 
TROI: Well, Vulcans have the same basic emotions we do. They've just
learned to repress them. What I sensed during the concert was that he'd
lost control. 
PICARD: What would cause such a loss of control? 
CRUSHER: There's a very rare condition that sometimes affects Vulcans
over the age of two hundred. Bendii Syndrome. Its early symptoms
include sudden bursts of emotion, mostly irrational anger. Eventually,
all emotional control is lost. 
PICARD: I can imagine nothing that would be more offensive to a Vulcan.
Their emotional detachment is the very core of
their being. How would this affect others on board the ship? 
TROI: Vulcans possess telepathic ability. Sarek may unintentionally be
projecting intense emotions onto other people, at random. 
PICARD: And when the Legarans beam on board? 
CRUSHER: They could very well be affected too. 
PICARD: Is there a treatment? 
CRUSHER: Can't someone else take his place? 
PICARD: Sarek has built a personal relationship with them. They will
accept no one else. How can we confirm your diagnosis? 
CRUSHER: We can grow a culture from the tissue of the metathalamus, but
the results will take several days. 
PICARD: I have twelve hours.

[Ready room]

MENDROSSEN: That's impossible, Captain Picard. I
cannot delay the conference. Not for a day, not for an hour. The
schedule itself required three months of negotiations. 
PICARD: Nevertheless, we appear to be facing 
MENDROSSEN: I give you my word of honour that the Ambassador is in
perfect health. Is that enough? 
PICARD: Mister Mendrossen 
MENDROSSEN: You are dealing with a theory full of holes, Captain. Why
am I not affected by Sarek's supposed condition? And Perrin. How could
his wife function normally if this theory of yours is correct? 
PICARD: I cannot explain that. Hundreds of others on board have not
been affected either. I have not. It appears to be random. Proximity,
apparently, has no bearing on the phenomenon. 
MENDROSSEN: You are accusing the greatest man of his time of losing his
mind on the eve of his greatest triumph, and you cannot explain why. I
won't report this to the Ambassador, for the moment. I don't want to
divert his attention from the mission. But if I were you, in the
interests of your career, I'd be very concerned about finding the real
cause of these outbursts before the Legarans arrive. 
(Mendrossen leaves) 
PICARD: Mister Data, will you please report to my Ready room. 
DATA [OC]: Aye, sir. 
