RIKER PICARD PERRIN SAKKATH MENDROSSEN SAREK DATA
arrival scheduled particular illogical deal allowed bedroom answer mistake

[Bridge]

DATA: Sakkath has been able, until recently, to use
his telepathic skills to reinforce Sarek's emotional control, thus
protecting others from the effects of his deterioration. 
RIKER: He hasn't been doing a very good job. 
DATA: The strain of this mission on Sarek has made it impossible. 
PICARD: It's ironic, isn't it? All this magnificent technology and we
find ourselves still susceptible to the ravages of old age. The loss of
dignity, the slow betrayal of our bodies by forces we cannot master. Do
you still want to be one of us, Data? 
DATA: Sir, it is conceivable, even for me, that time will eventually
lead to irreparable circuit failure. But there is one thing I do not
understand. Sarek is a logical, intelligent being. The effects of
Bendii Syndrome are apparent. Why would such a man choose to ignore
them? 
PICARD: Logic fails us sometimes, Data. I think this is one of those
times. I can only guess that he does not see, or he does not wish to
see, the truth. And he is being insulated against that truth by those
who love him most. 
RIKER: Someone has to confront him. 
PICARD: Not a task that I'm looking forward to. 
RIKER: I don't understand this. Everyone is protecting Sarek. His wife,
Mendrossen, even you. 
PICARD: What would you have me do? March down there and destroy the
man? 
RIKER: The mission with the Legarans cannot be carried out with Sarek
in this condition! 
PICARD: I know that! 
RIKER: (shouting) Then tell him that there is no way 
PICARD: Don't you tell me what to do! 
DATA: Captain. Commander. 
PICARD: Of course. You're right, Number One. It's a task that I will
attend to.

[Guest quarters]

PERRIN: Captain, I don't think I understand what
you're telling me. My husband is responsible for your crew assaulting
one another? 
PICARD: He is very ill, Perrin. 
PERRIN: Bendii Syndrome is more a folk tale than a disease. There
hasn't been a true case of it in my husband's lifetime. 
PICARD: There's one now. Sakkath knows. 
PERRIN: Sakkath? Sakkath knows nothing my husband didn't teach him. 
PICARD: He knows. And more than that. On this mission he has been
consciously holding Sarek's mind together as well as he could. 
PERRIN: That is not true! 
PICARD: I must see Sarek. 
PERRIN: Captain, I know a good deal about the Vulcan mind and I know a
good deal about the heart of one particular Vulcan. I am his wife, and
he is fine. He does not have Bendii Syndrome, and that shall be the end
of it. 
PICARD: I'm sorry. 
PERRIN: Please, you must not do this to him. 
(Sarek, Sakkath and Mendrossen come out of the bedroom) 
SAREK: Must not do what, my wife? If Captain Picard wishes to see me,
he may do so. I regret that we have seen so little of each other during
this voyage, Captain. 
PICARD: The loss is mine, Ambassador. 
MENDROSSEN: Captain, may I talk with you in private? 
SAREK: You were speaking of your belief that I suffer from Bendii
Syndrome. I have been accused of many things in my life, never an
excess of emotion. 
PERRIN: Sarek, I see no reason to continue this discussion. 
SAREK: On the contrary, I wish to assuage any fears the Captain may
have regarding my capabilities. I believe there is a test for Bendii
Syndrome. I will take it immediately. 
PICARD: Unfortunately the results would not be available for several
days, which is why I must ask for a postponement of the conference. 
SAREK: That would be a mistake. Captain, I give you my word. I am in
perfect health. 
PICARD: Then why must Sakkath help to contain your emotions? 
SAREK: Is what the captain says true? 
MENDROSSEN: No, Ambassador, absolutely not. 
SAREK: Perrin, were you aware of this? Sakkath, I await an answer. 
SAKKATH: I have been using my limited abilities to strengthen your
mental discipline. 
SAREK: Your efforts will no longer be required! 
SAKKATH: That would not be wise. 
SAREK: It may not be wise but it is necessary. 
(Sakkath leaves) 
SAREK: Leave me. I wish to speak with Captain Picard. 
PERRIN: Sarek, I ask you to reconsider. 
SAREK: Obey my wishes. There is nothing to fear. 
(Perrin and Mendrossen leave) 
PICARD: I hope I've not embarrassed you, Ambassador. 
SAREK: You seem to forget, Captain, that I am a Vulcan. I am not
affected by emotional considerations. 
PICARD: I think you are affected, sir, far more than you realise. 
SAREK: I am a logical being. Present your arguments. I will listen. 
PICARD: There is an epidemic of violent incidents aboard the
Enterprise. As we speak, the situation is worsening. 
SAREK: And it is your hypothesis that I am the cause of these
incidents? 
PICARD: Yes. My Chief Medical Officer has explored all other probable
causes. 
SAREK: I share your concern for your crew. However, you must agree it
is not unusual for a starship to encounter unexplained phenomena. 
PICARD: That is correct. 
SAREK: Therefore, since I can assure you that I am not the cause of
your difficulties, the logical course would be to have your doctor to
continue her search. 
PICARD: She is. It is also a fact that these incidents began shortly
after your arrival. 
SAREK: Is your entire argument to be based on mere coincidence? 
PICARD: Is it also coincidence that your wife and chief of staff are
carefully isolating you? 
SAREK: Ah. I believe I see the flaw in your logic. You are reacting to
their overprotective attitudes towards me.
They are both somewhat emotional concerning my age. 
PICARD: Surely Sakkath cannot be influenced by emotion? 
SAREK: Am I to be blamed for the judgment of a child? Sakkath is young
and inexperienced. He erred in his assumption that I needed help! 
PICARD: But you needed his help at the concert. Or is there possibly
some other logical explanation for what happened that night? 
SAREK: What happened? 
PICARD: I saw you crying. 
SAREK: I do not cry. 
PICARD: I was there I saw the tears. 
SAREK: You exaggerate, Captain. I recall only one tear. 
PICARD: So you were emotionally affected by the music. 
SAREK: That is not possible! 
PICARD: You still haven't answered my question, Sarek. Is it logical
for a Vulcan to cry? 
SAREK: It was late. I was fatigued. Nothing more. The Legarans trust
only me. They will not meet with any other member of the Federation. I
must be allowed to complete my mission! There are no other logical
solutions! 
PICARD: No other logical solutions? But Ambassador, there are always
other solutions. You have said so yourself many times. 
SAREK: What I meant was that 
PICARD: Sarek of Vulcan would never be afraid of looking straight at
something he did not want to see. 
SAREK: I warn you! Your efforts to discredit me will not succeed! 
PICARD: Sarek of Vulcan never confused what he wanted with the truth. 
SAREK: I will not be spoken to in this manner! 
PICARD: Do I hear anger in your voice? 
SAREK: It would be illogical for a Vulcan to show anger! It would be
illogical! Illogical! Illogical! Illogical!

Captain's log, supplemental. In three hours time we
are scheduled to meet with the Legaran delegation. However, it is now
all too evident that Ambassador Sarek is in no condition to proceed
with the conference.

[Ready room]

RIKER: We're entering the Legaran system, sir.
Shall I have Mister Worf contact their ambassador? 
PICARD: No. I will present our regrets to the Legarans personally. It
is vital that they understand our reasons for cancelling these
negotiations. 
RIKER: Captain, I think you did the right thing. 
PICARD: But at what cost, Number One? 
(door bell) 
PICARD: Come. Perrin? 
PERRIN: I must speak with you, Captain. 
RIKER: I'll be on the Bridge, sir. 
(Riker leaves) 
PICARD: How is the Ambassador? 
PERRIN: Resting. I've come to ask you to reconsider your position. 
PICARD: You know that is impossible. 
PERRIN: Sarek is a good man. He's given the Federation a lifetime of
service. I beg you to let him keep the respect he has earned. 
PICARD: He'll never lose that respect. 
PERRIN: Mendrossen and I never wanted to deceive you. My husband's
condition came on him so gradually it was so easy to delude ourselves
and pretend that nothing was wrong. We convinced ourselves that he
could complete this one last task and end his career with dignity. Help
him, Captain. Help him regain his pride, his honour. 
PICARD: Believe me, it would give me great pleasure, but there is
nothing I can do. 
PERRIN: The mission can be saved. But he needs your help to do it.

