TROI PICARD SAKKATH MENDROSSEN CRUSHER DATA

[Crusher's office]

CRUSHER: We do have a working theory. We believe
that it's possible Ambassador Sarek himself is responsible for these
incidents. 
PICARD: Sarek? 
TROI: I felt something during the concert. Vague and undefined, but
very disturbing 
PICARD: He cried. I saw that. I couldn't believe it. A Vulcan moved to
tears by music? It's 
TROI: Well, Vulcans have the same basic emotions we do. They've just
learned to repress them. What I sensed during the concert was that he'd
lost control. 
PICARD: What would cause such a loss of control? 
CRUSHER: There's a very rare condition that sometimes affects Vulcans
over the age of two hundred. Bendii Syndrome. Its early symptoms
include sudden bursts of emotion, mostly irrational anger. Eventually,
all emotional control is lost. 
PICARD: I can imagine nothing that would be more offensive to a Vulcan.
Their emotional detachment is the very core of
their being. How would this affect others on board the ship? 
TROI: Vulcans possess telepathic ability. Sarek may unintentionally be
projecting intense emotions onto other people, at random. 
PICARD: And when the Legarans beam on board? 
CRUSHER: They could very well be affected too. 
PICARD: Is there a treatment? 
CRUSHER: Can't someone else take his place? 
PICARD: Sarek has built a personal relationship with them. They will
accept no one else. How can we confirm your diagnosis? 
CRUSHER: We can grow a culture from the tissue of the metathalamus, but
the results will take several days. 
PICARD: I have twelve hours.

[Ready room]

MENDROSSEN: That's impossible, Captain Picard. I
cannot delay the conference. Not for a day, not for an hour. The
schedule itself required three months of negotiations. 
PICARD: Nevertheless, we appear to be facing 
MENDROSSEN: I give you my word of honour that the Ambassador is in
perfect health. Is that enough? 
PICARD: Mister Mendrossen 
MENDROSSEN: You are dealing with a theory full of holes, Captain. Why
am I not affected by Sarek's supposed condition? And Perrin. How could
his wife function normally if this theory of yours is correct? 
PICARD: I cannot explain that. Hundreds of others on board have not
been affected either. I have not. It appears to be random. Proximity,
apparently, has no bearing on the phenomenon. 
MENDROSSEN: You are accusing the greatest man of his time of losing his
mind on the eve of his greatest triumph, and you cannot explain why. I
won't report this to the Ambassador, for the moment. I don't want to
divert his attention from the mission. But if I were you, in the
interests of your career, I'd be very concerned about finding the real
cause of these outbursts before the Legarans arrive. 
(Mendrossen leaves) 
PICARD: Mister Data, will you please report to my Ready room. 
DATA [OC]: Aye, sir. 
[Conference room]

DATA: Captain Picard is not satisfied with Ki
Mendrossen's assurances that the Ambassador is in good health. Do you
consider Sarek capable of carrying out his mission? 
SAKKATH: Have I given you cause to think otherwise? 
DATA: You have voiced certain reservations to me about his abilities. 
SAKKATH: I do not recall making such a statement. 
DATA: Not directly, no. But you did question me about the diplomatic
capabilities of both Captain Picard and Counsellor Troi. 
SAKKATH: I am honour-bound to help Sarek carry out this mission. That
is the only answer I can give. 
DATA: Then you must decide which is your greater obligation. Your
loyalty to Sarek or your duty to the Federation. Can you accept the
logic of continuing this mission? 
SAKKATH: Tell your Captain the mission is in jeopardy.

