PICARD RIKER MENDROSSEN DATA SAKKATH

[Ready room]

MENDROSSEN: That's impossible, Captain Picard. I
cannot delay the conference. Not for a day, not for an hour. The
schedule itself required three months of negotiations. 
PICARD: Nevertheless, we appear to be facing 
MENDROSSEN: I give you my word of honour that the Ambassador is in
perfect health. Is that enough? 
PICARD: Mister Mendrossen 
MENDROSSEN: You are dealing with a theory full of holes, Captain. Why
am I not affected by Sarek's supposed condition? And Perrin. How could
his wife function normally if this theory of yours is correct? 
PICARD: I cannot explain that. Hundreds of others on board have not
been affected either. I have not. It appears to be random. Proximity,
apparently, has no bearing on the phenomenon. 
MENDROSSEN: You are accusing the greatest man of his time of losing his
mind on the eve of his greatest triumph, and you cannot explain why. I
won't report this to the Ambassador, for the moment. I don't want to
divert his attention from the mission. But if I were you, in the
interests of your career, I'd be very concerned about finding the real
cause of these outbursts before the Legarans arrive. 
(Mendrossen leaves) 
PICARD: Mister Data, will you please report to my Ready room. 
DATA [OC]: Aye, sir. 
[Conference room]

DATA: Captain Picard is not satisfied with Ki
Mendrossen's assurances that the Ambassador is in good health. Do you
consider Sarek capable of carrying out his mission? 
SAKKATH: Have I given you cause to think otherwise? 
DATA: You have voiced certain reservations to me about his abilities. 
SAKKATH: I do not recall making such a statement. 
DATA: Not directly, no. But you did question me about the diplomatic
capabilities of both Captain Picard and Counsellor Troi. 
SAKKATH: I am honour-bound to help Sarek carry out this mission. That
is the only answer I can give. 
DATA: Then you must decide which is your greater obligation. Your
loyalty to Sarek or your duty to the Federation. Can you accept the
logic of continuing this mission? 
SAKKATH: Tell your Captain the mission is in jeopardy.

[Bridge]

DATA: Sakkath has been able, until recently, to use
his telepathic skills to reinforce Sarek's emotional control, thus
protecting others from the effects of his deterioration. 
RIKER: He hasn't been doing a very good job. 
DATA: The strain of this mission on Sarek has made it impossible. 
PICARD: It's ironic, isn't it? All this magnificent technology and we
find ourselves still susceptible to the ravages of old age. The loss of
dignity, the slow betrayal of our bodies by forces we cannot master. Do
you still want to be one of us, Data? 
DATA: Sir, it is conceivable, even for me, that time will eventually
lead to irreparable circuit failure. But there is one thing I do not
understand. Sarek is a logical, intelligent being. The effects of
Bendii Syndrome are apparent. Why would such a man choose to ignore
them? 
PICARD: Logic fails us sometimes, Data. I think this is one of those
times. I can only guess that he does not see, or he does not wish to
see, the truth. And he is being insulated against that truth by those
who love him most. 
RIKER: Someone has to confront him. 
PICARD: Not a task that I'm looking forward to. 
RIKER: I don't understand this. Everyone is protecting Sarek. His wife,
Mendrossen, even you. 
PICARD: What would you have me do? March down there and destroy the
man? 
RIKER: The mission with the Legarans cannot be carried out with Sarek
in this condition! 
PICARD: I know that! 
RIKER: (shouting) Then tell him that there is no way 
PICARD: Don't you tell me what to do! 
DATA: Captain. Commander. 
PICARD: Of course. You're right, Number One. It's a task that I will
attend to.

