PICARD TROI PERRIN RIKER

[Bridge]

RIKER: The way Mendrossen described him, I expected
to see a frail old man. 
PICARD: I hope I'm that frail when I'm two hundred and two years old.
But his aides did seem to be a little overprotective, didn't they? 
RIKER: From what I could see, the Ambassador doesn't need to be
protected from anything. 
PICARD: Well, we'll respect Mister Mendrossen's request and allow
Ambassador Sarek his privacy. I suppose they were foolish and vain, my
expectations of this voyage. Sharing his thoughts, memories, his unique
understanding of the history he's made. 
TROI: Does this mean you're going to cancel the concert this evening? 
PICARD: No, the concert will ahead as scheduled. But it's a pity that
the guest of honour will be absent. 
RIKER: For all we know, the Ambassador might enjoy an evening's
entertainment 
TROI: Why not ask his wife if she'd like to attend? 
PICARD: That's an excellent idea, Counsellor. You have the Bridge,
Number One.

[Guest quarters]

PERRIN: Come in. 
PICARD: I hope I'm not intruding. 
PERRIN: Not at all, Captain, but Sarek is in meditation at the moment. 
PICARD: Actually, I came to see you. 
PERRIN: Well, how nice. I so rarely get visitors of my own. Usually
everyone wants to see the Ambassador. 
PICARD: I find that hard to believe. Thank you. 
(They sit) 
PERRIN: These quarters are quite comfortable. The Ambassador and I were
very pleased when we heard that the negotiations were going to take
place aboard the flagship of the Federation. 
PICARD: The honour is ours. 
PERRIN: My husband has taken an interest in your career. He finds it to
be satisfactory. 
PICARD: My word! High praise from a Vulcan. 
PERRIN: Some people who expect an emotional response often find Vulcans
quite cold when they are merely being 
PICARD: Logical. 
PERRIN: Exactly. 
PICARD: I came to invite you, and your husband if he is available, to a
Mozart recital this evening. 
PERRIN: What a tempting offer. I doubt that the Ambassador will be able
to attend, but I will make it a point to ask him. 
PICARD: Well, then I hope to see you tonight. 
PERRIN: As do I.

