TROI LAFORGE LWAXANA FAREK WESLEY TROI [telepath] DATA TOG LWAXANA [telepath]
control sensible right wall coming vanishes adventures ninety excellent

[Tog's quarters]

LWAXANA: I should have known. Even their
transporters can't be trusted. 
TROI: Why have you removed our clothing? 
FAREK: Females do not deserve the honour of clothing. 
LWAXANA: They're as bad as humans. Look at the leer on his face. 
TOG: No. His is an expression of revulsion. But it is a feeling that I
do not share, Lwaxana. 
(Lwaxana picks up a couple of bedsheets or something, and hands one to
Deanna. They wrap them around themselves) 
LWAXANA: Well, it's cold in here. Do you want me to become ill? 
TOG: You must forgive the doctor. He is not accustomed to dealing with
Betazoid females. Now, Lwaxana, I have a business proposition for you. 
LWAXANA: Thanks, but I'm not interested in any of your propositions. 
TOG: Hear me out. Your telepathic powers could bring us both great
profit. 
LWAXANA: Huh. Why would I want to bring you profit? 
FAREK: In order to keep your daughter alive and healthy, for one. 
TOG: There's no need for threats. Lwaxana is a sensible female 
TROI [telepath]: I don't like the sound of this, mother. 
LWAXANA [telepath]: I believe I can control him, Little One. 
LWAXANA: I'm sure we can talk about this. Just the two of us. 
TOG: A wise choice. Farek, leave us. And you may rejoin your friend. 
TROI [telepath]: Mother, are you sure? 
LWAXANA [telepath]: I'll be fine. 
(Deanna vanishes) 
TOG: And now, Lwaxana Troi, let us talk. 
(He presses a button and a bed slides out from the wall)

[Engineering]

LAFORGE: Fifteen hours from Gamma Erandi, and
already the subspace static is playing hell with communications. 
WESLEY: Just what you'd expect from a stellar nursery. 
DATA: Wesley, congratulations on passing your Starfleet written
examination. An excellent achievement. 
WESLEY: Thanks, Data. Now if I can just do well on the oral exams. 
LAFORGE: Not to worry, you will. And when you return, we'll be gaining
the best ensign in the fleet. 
DATA: There is no guarantee that Wesley will be reassigned to the
Enterprise. Ninety one per cent of Starfleet graduates are not posted
to Galaxy class starships on their first assignment. 
WESLEY: I never thought of that. I always assumed I'd be coming back to
the Enterprise. 
LAFORGE: I'm sure Captain Picard will request you. That is, if he's
still commanding the Enterprise when you graduate. 
WESLEY: I never thought of that, either. I never thought I'd feel this
way about leaving you guys and the Enterprise. 
DATA: Is that not a part of the human experience? Growth and change? 
WESLEY: I suppose so, but. 
LAFORGE: Listen, Wesley. I felt the same way when I left my family to
go to the Academy. But it was one of the best times of my life. You're
going to meet new friends and have adventures that you can't even
imagine yet.
WESLEY: I hope you're right, Geordi.

