TROI TOG [OC] RIKER TOG LWAXANA NIBOR
excitable search like food hand cell low meeting tell

[Clearing]

(Will and Deanna are strolling hand in hand through
an exotic parkland. Both are in civilian dress)
RIKER: I think it's around here somewhere. 
TROI: Maybe it died. It has been a few years. 
RIKER: Muktok live for hundreds of years. Here it is. 
(A low growing plant with a fluffy purple flower that chimes when you
shake it) 
TROI: It's lovely. I remember that sound, and all the good times we
had. 
RIKER: I remember a certain junior officer meeting a very serious
psychologist. The best part about being assigned to Betazed. 
(as they kiss, they don't notice the flamboyantly dressed woman, and a
tall man carrying picnic baskets) 
LWAXANA: Oh, this is the perfect spot. Put the food down over there,
Mister Homn. Isn't it a beautiful day for a picnic? They'll join us in
a minute. No, no, no, no. Here, put the food over there. No, you can go
back 
TROI: Mother, how did you know about this place? 
LWAXANA: Your father used to bring me here. Sit down. 
RIKER: And you even brought provisions. Very thoughtful. 
LWAXANA: Here, Will, Deanna. Try an oskoid. They're delicious. That sap
running through the veins helps keep it warm. 
RIKER: Very tasty. So tell us, Lwaxana. The last time we met, you were
looking for a husband. Did you have any luck? 
LWAXANA: Alas, no, but what happens to me isn't important. I'm much
more concerned about other people getting on with their lives. 
TROI: Mother. 
LWAXANA: Mister Homn, I noticed some uttaberries back along the path.
Pick some. 
(Homn dutifully leaves them) 
LWAXANA: Well, Mister Homn and I could go back home if you two would
like to be alone. It's such a romantic setting. 
TROI: Mother, stop it. 
LWAXANA: Darling, you have been so excitable lately. Have you ever
thought of a leave of absence? I could talk to Jean-Luc. 
RIKER: Try the oskoid. Very different. 
(A Ferengi beams in) 
RIKER: What the? 
TOG: For one whose beauty surpasses even these pericules. 
RIKER: DaiMon Tog, I thought the Krayton left orbit hours ago. 
TOG: It did. But when I tried to get the image of Lwaxana Troi out of
my mind, I could not succeed. 
LWAXANA: This is ludicrous. You mean you came all the way back to
Betazed for me? 
TOG: Why continue to search for perfection once you have found it? 
TROI: I don't believe this. 
LWAXANA: Look, Demon Tog, or whatever you call yourself, I am the
Daughter of the Fifth House, Holder of the Sacred Chalice of Rixx, heir
to the Holy Rings of Betazed. And unless you want to create an
interstellar incident, you had better beam back to your ship. 
TOG: Returning to my ship is exactly what I had in mind. Krayton,
transport four immediately. 
RIKER: No, Tog! 
(And they all disappear. Mr. Homn returns, eating berries, and looks
around somewhat bemused)

[Holding cell]

(They wake up in a large cell with a forcefield at
the entrance. Two Ferengi are playing 3D chess outside) 
RIKER: Lwaxana? Deanna? 
LWAXANA: Where are we? 
RIKER: From the smell of things, I'd say we're aboard a Ferengi vessel.

LWAXANA: The Ferengi can't do that. You're Starfleet officers. 
RIKER: Tog must have missed that chapter in the Ferengi book of
Etiquette. (taps his comm. badge) Enterprise? Must be too far out of
range. 
(Riker tests the forcefield - it hurts) 
NIBOR: DaiMon, they have regained consciousness. 
TOG [OC]: Very good. 
(Deanna and Lwaxana are beamed away, and their dresses fall empty to
the floor) 
