 LWAXANA WESLEY TOG PICARD

[Bridge]


LWAXANA
[on viewscreen]: And you can't keep killing
all my lovers. That simply has to stop. 
TOG [on viewscreen]: Killing? 
LWAXANA [on viewscreen]: Oh, he's insanely jealous. 
PICARD: Listen, Tog, I must possesses Lwaxana. And if that means
destroying your ship in the process, so be it. 
TOG [on viewscreen]: Captain, I had no idea Lwaxana was 
LWAXANA [on viewscreen]: Don't let him threaten you. You can defeat
him. The only way you'll ever get me back is over Tog's dead body! 
PICARD [on viewscreen]: That can be arranged. Mister Worf, arm phaser
banks and photon torpedoes. If Lwaxana Troi is not in my arms in ten
seconds, throw everything you've got at the Krayton. 
TOG [on viewscreen]: But you will destroy Lwaxana! 
PICARD: When I have plucked the rose, I cannot give it vital growth
again. It needs must wither. Nine, eight. 'Tis better to have loved and
lost than never to have loved at all. 
(Tennyson,
In Memoriam, 27) Seven, six 
TOG [on viewscreen]: No, wait. 
PICARD: Five, four 
TOG [on viewscreen]: Beam her to their Bridge, now! 
PICARD: Two, one 
(Lwaxana appears, and sits on Picard's knee) 
LWAXANA: You wonderfully jealous fool, you. 
TOG [on viewscreen]: Captain, I trust there will be no further action
taken against us? 
PICARD: Such as my reporting this incident to your superiors who may
question your competency as
DaiMon? I will think about it. Screen off. 
LWAXANA: Thank you, Jean-Luc. You were most convincing. You certainly
convinced me. 
PICARD: I am truly grateful, Mrs. Troi, that you risked your life to
save my people. I'll have you home within a few hours. 
LWAXANA: Oh, no, no, no, no, that won't be necessary. I'd just love to
hear more of your poetry. 
PICARD: Perhaps another time. (finally manages to stand up. Please.
Mister Crusher, set course for Betazed. Warp nine. 
[Ready room]

WESLEY: You asked to see me, Captain? 
PICARD: I've been in touch with Admiral Hahn at Starfleet Academy. The
Admiral regrets your missing the oral examination but hopes that you'll
reapply next year. 
WESLEY: I understand, sir, and I do intend to reapply. 
PICARD: In the interim, the Academy's loss is our gain. The Enterprise
will continue to benefit from your talents for another year. 
WESLEY: Thank you, sir. Is that all? 
PICARD: No. 
WESLEY: Is there something wrong, Captain? 
PICARD: I'm just thinking that I'm saying goodbye to you as you are
today. 
WESLEY: But I thought you said I wasn't going to be able to go? 
PICARD: The Academy must make you wait, that's true. But, when I review
your service to this ship, your crewmates, I cannot in all conscience
make you wait for the Academy. You see, Wesley, in my eyes you're an
acting ensign in title only. I hereby grant you field promotion to full
Ensign, with all the commensurate responsibilities and privileges of
that rank. Congratulations. You're dismissed.

