GRAX RIKER LWAXANA PICARD FAREK NIBOR WESLEY TROI DATA TOG

[Ten Forward]

(The place is thronging, and Riker is playing 3D
chess against a Ferengi) 
RIKER: Check and mate. 
WESLEY: Perfect. The queen's gambit finished off with the Aldabren
Exchange. 
NIBOR: That is unfair. I couldn't concentrate with all that noise. 
WESLEY: Noise? It's Algolian ceremonial rhythms. 
PICARD: A toast to the success of the trade conference, Reittan. I must
admit, I had some doubts when you invited the Ferengi. 
GRAX: They made a profit and behaved themselves. What more could one
ask? Still, they trouble me. We Betazeds are uncomfortable with species
like the Ferengi whose minds we can't read. 
DATA: Perhaps your telepathic abilities are ineffective owing to the
anomalous construction of the Ferengi brain, which is composed of four
different 
PICARD: Thank you, Mister Data. It was thoughtful of you to invite
Lwaxana Troi to be part of the Betazed delegation. 
GRAX: Yes, Lwaxana and I go way back. Her first husband and I were old
friends, and I've known Deanna since she was a child. 
PICARD: I'm sure Counsellor Troi appreciates the opportunity to spend
time with her mother. 
LWAXANA [telepath]: (whilst eating) Little One, you could at least
pretend you're happy to see me. 
TROI: Mother, we're among non-telepaths. It's impolite not to speak
aloud. 
LWAXANA [telepath]: You mean talk with my mouth full? Deanna, please! 
LWAXANA: All right, you want me to say something aloud? Have you
considered if you had stayed on Betazed, you might have been a happier
person. 
TROI: Let's not guess what might have been. I love my work aboard the
Enterprise. 
LWAXANA: Yes, of course you do, but its all business and no play.
You've got to enjoy life, relax, like I do. Find yourself the right
man, think of your future. Think of my future. 
RIKER: Lwaxana, Deanna. Anything I can do for you? 
TROI: (gets up) Could I? 
(Riker and Troi leave Lwaxana and go to sit at the bar) 
FAREK: She's as repulsive as the rest of them. 
(Ethan Phillips, who will eventually be Neelix, is under those ears) 
TOG: Repulsive? I find her exotic. And what an advantage her telepathy
would be in our negotiations. 
FAREK: To read our competitors' minds? Yes, that would be valuable. But
she'd never agree to use her powers to help us. 
TOG: I'm not so sure. 
(He goes over and introduces himself) 
TOG: Lwaxana Troi of Betazed, I believe. I am DaiMon Tog of the Ferengi
vessel Krayton. May I join you? 
LWAXANA: I was just going to see Captain Picard. Excuse me. 
(Lwaxana hurries away) 
LWAXANA: Oh, Jean-Luc! Jean-Luc! Come have a drink with me. Tell me
what you've been up to. 
PICARD: Perhaps later, Lwaxana. Mister Data and I were just about to
show Reittan Grax the er, the er, the new door mechanisms on the aft
turbolifts. If you'll excuse us? 
TOG: Lwaxana Troi. I desire you. 
LWAXANA: What? 
TOG: You see, your Betazoid skills would be very useful to me, and I
find you very attractive. I am willing to pay handsomely for you. 
LWAXANA: I don't believe this. 
TOG: You must be aware that every female has her price. 
LWAXANA: Let's get one thing straight, little man. I am not for sale.
And if, by some chance I were to become available, I would rather eat
Orion wing-slugs than deal with a toad-faced troll like you! So go away
and find someone else to become your property. 
(She storms out) 
TOG: As you wish. 
FAREK: Now that you've totally humiliated us, may we return to our
vessel? 
TOG: She is exhilarating, isn't she? Now I want her more than ever.
Lwaxana Troi, you will be mine.

