GRAX RIKER LAFORGE WORF PICARD TROI CREWWOMAN DATA
direction lots ll non warp bouquet static create tricorders

[Clearing]

(Lots of people with tricorders taking scans) 
WORF: When you have finished here, survey in that direction. 
CREWWOMAN: Aye, sir. 
GRAX: I wish I had some answers for you, Lieutenant Worf. 
WORF: Mister Homn was no help? 
GRAX: None. He last saw them as he was leaving this clearing. When he
returned, all three of them were gone. 
DATA: Lieutenant Foley discovered this in the pond. (Tog's bouquet) The
species is Zan Periculi. It is not indigenous to Betazed, but to Lappa
Four. A Ferengi world.

[Ready room]

PICARD: Now we now have a reasonable hypothesis as
to whom. 
WORF: The difficult question is where. 
LAFORGE: The Ferengi ship is almost as fast as the Enterprise. She
could be anywhere by now. 
PICARD: Commander Riker will assume that we'll be searching for them.
He'll find some way to send us a message. Mister Worf, I want continual
monitoring of Ferengi subspace
frequencies. Mister La Forge, can you extend our sensor range? 
LAFORGE: If I narrow the band and tie in long range sensors to the
subspace scanners, I can boost the gain. 
PICARD: Make it so. 
DATA: Do you wish to leave orbit, sir? 
PICARD: Not until we have someplace to go.

[Ferengi brig]

RIKER: I've done everything I know how. It's no
use. Without Tog's security code, I can't get near their communication
system. 
TROI: We're running out of time. Farek's about to begin the neural scan
on Mother. 
RIKER: Maybe I'm going about this in the wrong way. If I pick a minor
subsystem, something non-essential. Like this. Warp field phase
adjustment. All this does is suppress the subspace interference
generated by the warp engines. 
TROI: Meaning what? 
RIKER: Meaning if I set up a simple oscillation, I can send out a
signal. The trick is to create a message that the Enterprise will
understand but that the Ferengi will think is just normal subspace
static. What's wrong? 
(Lwaxana is being tortured by the Ferengi mind probe. It hurts, a lot) 
TROI: Mother. Will, we have to help her. 
