TROI LAFORGE LWAXANA PICARD RIKER WESLEY DATA TOG

[Ready room]

WESLEY: Adding pre-processors to the neutrino
counters boosted efficiency by eleven percent. Of course, Commander La
Forge and Commander Data did most of the work. 
LAFORGE: Not so fast, Wesley. Pre-processing the data with an optical
chip was your idea. 
DATA: That is correct, sir. Although Commander La Forge and I designed
the chip, Mister Crusher derived the equation governing its operation. 
RIKER: The point is, you've completed the upgrade well ahead of
schedule. Very impressive. 
PICARD: Indeed. Fine work. We shall miss you, Mister Crusher. As you've
guessed, final entrance examination scores from Starfleet Academy have
arrived. Congratulations. As soon as you have completed the oral exam,
you'll be formally admitted. 
RIKER: We'll have you back at Betazed in plenty of time to meet up with
the Academy transport ship. 
WESLEY: Thank you, sir. 
PICARD: That'll be all. Number One, a moment. 
(Wesley and Geordi leave) 
RIKER: Yes, Captain? 
PICARD: You'll agree that this is a fairly routine mapping mission? 
RIKER: Yes, sir. 
PICARD: Counsellor Troi had the good sense to ask for shore leave. I
can see I'm going to have to suggest it to you. Have a good time,
Number One.

[Clearing]

(Will and Deanna are strolling hand in hand through
an exotic parkland. Both are in civilian dress)
RIKER: I think it's around here somewhere. 
TROI: Maybe it died. It has been a few years. 
RIKER: Muktok live for hundreds of years. Here it is. 
(A low growing plant with a fluffy purple flower that chimes when you
shake it) 
TROI: It's lovely. I remember that sound, and all the good times we
had. 
RIKER: I remember a certain junior officer meeting a very serious
psychologist. The best part about being assigned to Betazed. 
(as they kiss, they don't notice the flamboyantly dressed woman, and a
tall man carrying picnic baskets) 
LWAXANA: Oh, this is the perfect spot. Put the food down over there,
Mister Homn. Isn't it a beautiful day for a picnic? They'll join us in
a minute. No, no, no, no. Here, put the food over there. No, you can go
back 
TROI: Mother, how did you know about this place? 
LWAXANA: Your father used to bring me here. Sit down. 
RIKER: And you even brought provisions. Very thoughtful. 
LWAXANA: Here, Will, Deanna. Try an oskoid. They're delicious. That sap
running through the veins helps keep it warm. 
RIKER: Very tasty. So tell us, Lwaxana. The last time we met, you were
looking for a husband. Did you have any luck? 
LWAXANA: Alas, no, but what happens to me isn't important. I'm much
more concerned about other people getting on with their lives. 
TROI: Mother. 
LWAXANA: Mister Homn, I noticed some uttaberries back along the path.
Pick some. 
(Homn dutifully leaves them) 
LWAXANA: Well, Mister Homn and I could go back home if you two would
like to be alone. It's such a romantic setting. 
TROI: Mother, stop it. 
LWAXANA: Darling, you have been so excitable lately. Have you ever
thought of a leave of absence? I could talk to Jean-Luc. 
RIKER: Try the oskoid. Very different. 
(A Ferengi beams in) 
RIKER: What the? 
TOG: For one whose beauty surpasses even these pericules. 
RIKER: DaiMon Tog, I thought the Krayton left orbit hours ago. 
TOG: It did. But when I tried to get the image of Lwaxana Troi out of
my mind, I could not succeed. 
LWAXANA: This is ludicrous. You mean you came all the way back to
Betazed for me? 
TOG: Why continue to search for perfection once you have found it? 
TROI: I don't believe this. 
LWAXANA: Look, Demon Tog, or whatever you call yourself, I am the
Daughter of the Fifth House, Holder of the Sacred Chalice of Rixx, heir
to the Holy Rings of Betazed. And unless you want to create an
interstellar incident, you had better beam back to your ship. 
TOG: Returning to my ship is exactly what I had in mind. Krayton,
transport four immediately. 
RIKER: No, Tog! 
(And they all disappear. Mr. Homn returns, eating berries, and looks
around somewhat bemused)

