LWAXANA TROI WORF

[Corridor]

TROI: Are we at war with the Ferengi yet? 
WORF: DaiMon Tog has returned to his vessel and the Ferengi have left
orbit. 
TROI: My mother will be relieved. 
WORF: I hear she handled the situation quite skillfully. An admirable
woman. 
TROI: I'll be sure to tell her you said so. 
LWAXANA [telepath]: Come in, Little One.

[Troi's quarters]

(Lwaxana is lying on the couch) 
TROI: Mother? Mother, please. 
LWAXANA: After that awful little Ferengi insulted me, I needed to
centre myself. Can you imagine that dreadful little creature talking to
me like that? Doesn't he realise that I am a daughter of the Fifth
House of Betazed. Holder of the Sacred Chalice of Rixx? 
TROI: The Sacred Chalice of Rixx is an old clay pot with mold growing
inside it. 
LWAXANA: Perhaps one day when you're older and wiser, you'll
understand. Come on, sit down. Talk to me. We spend so little time
together. 
TROI: That's true. I'm sorry, and I didn't mean to get so upset with
you at the reception. 
LWAXANA: Deanna, try to understand. You're all I have. My only concern
is for your happiness. 
TROI: I am happy. Why can't you believe that? 
LWAXANA: I wish I could, but how much happiness is there in always
being there for someone else, and never being there for yourself? 
TROI: I get a great deal of satisfaction out of my work. 
LWAXANA: I'm sure you do. I'm sure it's very rewarding in its way. What
about a family? 
TROI: This is my family. My friends here on the Enterprise. 
LWAXANA: All right. In case I have to spell it out for you, I'm talking
about finding a husband, having a child. That's what made me happy. At
least until now. 
TROI: Mother, look. Perhaps some day I will marry. But you've got to
let me make my own choices, live my own life, and not the life you
would choose for me. 
LWAXANA: You had your chance with Commander Riker. Look how you ruined
that. 
TROI: I did not ruin anything. We've became very good friends. 
LWAXANA: Well, all the better. You certainly wouldn't want to marry an
enemy. I see we can't talk about this. Very well, have it your way,
Little One. 
TROI: Little One? You called me that when I was five. Now stop
demeaning me and address me as an adult!

