TROI LAFORGE WORF PICARD RIKER WESLEY DATA
farek wish ll departure warp commander thanks duties farewells

[Ready room]

PICARD: Now we now have a reasonable hypothesis as
to whom. 
WORF: The difficult question is where. 
LAFORGE: The Ferengi ship is almost as fast as the Enterprise. She
could be anywhere by now. 
PICARD: Commander Riker will assume that we'll be searching for them.
He'll find some way to send us a message. Mister Worf, I want continual
monitoring of Ferengi subspace
frequencies. Mister La Forge, can you extend our sensor range? 
LAFORGE: If I narrow the band and tie in long range sensors to the
subspace scanners, I can boost the gain. 
PICARD: Make it so. 
DATA: Do you wish to leave orbit, sir? 
PICARD: Not until we have someplace to go.

[Ferengi brig]

RIKER: I've done everything I know how. It's no
use. Without Tog's security code, I can't get near their communication
system. 
TROI: We're running out of time. Farek's about to begin the neural scan
on Mother. 
RIKER: Maybe I'm going about this in the wrong way. If I pick a minor
subsystem, something non-essential. Like this. Warp field phase
adjustment. All this does is suppress the subspace interference
generated by the warp engines. 
TROI: Meaning what? 
RIKER: Meaning if I set up a simple oscillation, I can send out a
signal. The trick is to create a message that the Enterprise will
understand but that the Ferengi will think is just normal subspace
static. What's wrong? 
(Lwaxana is being tortured by the Ferengi mind probe. It hurts, a lot) 
TROI: Mother. Will, we have to help her. 
[Bridge]

LAFORGE: Thanks for your help, Wes, but you'd
better get aboard the Bradbury. They were ready to break orbit an hour
ago. 
WESLEY: Soon as I'm sure this works. 
LAFORGE: Initiating scans now, Captain. 
PICARD: Can you locate the Krayton? 
DATA: Ferengi transmissions are routinely scrambled and encoded, sir.
Without breaking the code, we will be unable to identify any specific
Ferengi vessel. 
LAFORGE: Ferengi codes are damn near impossible to break. 
PICARD: Gentlemen, I have the utmost confidence in your ability to
perform the impossible. 
WORF: Captain, the Bradbury is hailing us. They can no longer delay
their departure. 
PICARD: Mister Crusher. Now. No lengthy farewells. Good luck. 
WESLEY: Thank you, sir. 
(Wesley takes a look around as everyone carries on with their duties,
then leaves) 
DATA: The repetitive nature of the subcarrier pattern would imply a
modified 
