RIKER LAFORGE WORF PICARD CRUSHER DATA TEMPLE

[Planet surface]

(A harsh, rocky place littered with bits of metal) 
DATA: Radiation levels within acceptable limits. 
(There is a man tumbled out the back of a shuttlecraft sized ship. The
man has a badly burned face) 
LAFORGE: We can beam him out from under there, get him right up to
Sickbay. 
CRUSHER: He's not stable enough for transport. There's damage to his
brain stem, autonomic functions are failing. His heart needs active
neurofeedback. It can't regulate itself. I need a volunteer. 
LAFORGE: Right here. 
CRUSHER: I'm going to hook your nervous systems to the tricorder. Your
brain will regulate both systems. That
should stabilise him long enough to get him up to the ship. 
CRUSHER: Take deep, regular breaths. If anything goes wrong I'll break
the connection. 
LAFORGE: Okay. 
(Something golden leaps from the injured man into Geordi's head via the
neural thingummyjig) 
CRUSHER: Geordi! 
LAFORGE: I'm fine. No problem. 
CRUSHER: Transporter room, three to beam directly to Sickbay.

[Sickbay - room four]

CRUSHER: Autonomic responses are still low. Begin
cardiostimulation. Sixty cc's of inaprovaline. Massive infection is
setting in. Use the protodynoplaser to stabilize his immune system. We
need to design a virus that can infiltrate his cell structure and boost
his ATP production. 
TEMPLE: (a female nurse) What about Commander La Forge. He's waiting in
the diagnostic centre. 
CRUSHER: I need you to give him a full bioscan. See if there's any
residual effect from that energy discharge during the neurolink. Keep
his arm in cryogenic stasis until the vital signs are strong enough to
begin surgical procedures.

[Bridge]

(Picard is holding an oversized blue plastic bottle
or tube) 
RIKER: From the size and shape of the wreckage, it appeared to be some
kind of escape pod. Their control system was badly damaged, which is
probably what caused the crash. 
PICARD: An escape pod? Then he couldn't have travelled very far. Mister
Data, are there any other signs of ships in this area? 
DATA: I am picking up a scattering of debris in extended orbit around
the planet. It reads as refined metals and other synthetic compounds. 
PICARD: The remains of a larger vessel. He must have left in the pod
before the ship was destroyed. 
WORF: Sensors show trace elements in the debris that would indicate
phaser fire was recently exchanged. 
PICARD: Were you able to salvage anything else from the escape pod? 
RIKER: This is all that was left from their computer system. 
PICARD: Mister Data, can you access it? 
DATA: It will take time, sir. Downloading this into our system will
require fabrication of a matrix translator to emulate the alien's
computer system. 
PICARD: Keep me apprised of your progress. 
DATA: Aye, sir.

