RIKER LAFORGE WORF PICARD CRUSHER DATA TEMPLE

[Sickbay - room four]

CRUSHER: Autonomic responses are still low. Begin
cardiostimulation. Sixty cc's of inaprovaline. Massive infection is
setting in. Use the protodynoplaser to stabilize his immune system. We
need to design a virus that can infiltrate his cell structure and boost
his ATP production. 
TEMPLE: (a female nurse) What about Commander La Forge. He's waiting in
the diagnostic centre. 
CRUSHER: I need you to give him a full bioscan. See if there's any
residual effect from that energy discharge during the neurolink. Keep
his arm in cryogenic stasis until the vital signs are strong enough to
begin surgical procedures.

[Bridge]

(Picard is holding an oversized blue plastic bottle
or tube) 
RIKER: From the size and shape of the wreckage, it appeared to be some
kind of escape pod. Their control system was badly damaged, which is
probably what caused the crash. 
PICARD: An escape pod? Then he couldn't have travelled very far. Mister
Data, are there any other signs of ships in this area? 
DATA: I am picking up a scattering of debris in extended orbit around
the planet. It reads as refined metals and other synthetic compounds. 
PICARD: The remains of a larger vessel. He must have left in the pod
before the ship was destroyed. 
WORF: Sensors show trace elements in the debris that would indicate
phaser fire was recently exchanged. 
PICARD: Were you able to salvage anything else from the escape pod? 
RIKER: This is all that was left from their computer system. 
PICARD: Mister Data, can you access it? 
DATA: It will take time, sir. Downloading this into our system will
require fabrication of a matrix translator to emulate the alien's
computer system. 
PICARD: Keep me apprised of your progress. 
DATA: Aye, sir.

[Sickbay - room four]

TEMPLE: Limb re-fusion appears to be successful,
Doctor. Tissue oxygenation is within norms. 
CRUSHER: That's all we can do for now. We won't be able to test
neuromuscular function for a few days. 
(Geordi enters) 
CRUSHER: Ah, Geordi. 
LAFORGE: Can I go now, Doc? 
CRUSHER: No need to keep you here. Your bioscan came out negative. 
LAFORGE: Could've told you that. I feel great. 
(Geordi leaves as Picard enters) 
PICARD: How's your patient? 
CRUSHER: I never thought he'd make it this far. There was major trauma
to his head and chest cavity, massive plasma loss, and severe damage to
most of his organs. 
PICARD: What are his chances? 
CRUSHER: I believe he's going to live. I'm afraid I can't take the
credit for it, though. His body seems to have amazing recuperative
powers. The damaged tissue seems to be repairing itself at a phenomenal
rate. There's one thing that troubles me though. 
PICARD: What's that? 
CRUSHER: Take a look at this. 
(She pulls up a large wall display of green things running through
blood vessels) 
PICARD: Cell regeneration? 
CRUSHER: Yes. The thing is, it has nothing to do with the injuries.
These are undamaged cells that seem to be mutating. 
PICARD: Do you have a theory as to the cause? 
CRUSHER: No. I've never seen anything like it in my life. There is a
possibility
that it's part of his natural healing process. I hope it is, because
there's nothing I can do to stop it.

