RIKER LAFORGE WORF CHRISTI PICARD CRUSHER DATA TEMPLE

[Bridge]

(Picard is holding an oversized blue plastic bottle
or tube) 
RIKER: From the size and shape of the wreckage, it appeared to be some
kind of escape pod. Their control system was badly damaged, which is
probably what caused the crash. 
PICARD: An escape pod? Then he couldn't have travelled very far. Mister
Data, are there any other signs of ships in this area? 
DATA: I am picking up a scattering of debris in extended orbit around
the planet. It reads as refined metals and other synthetic compounds. 
PICARD: The remains of a larger vessel. He must have left in the pod
before the ship was destroyed. 
WORF: Sensors show trace elements in the debris that would indicate
phaser fire was recently exchanged. 
PICARD: Were you able to salvage anything else from the escape pod? 
RIKER: This is all that was left from their computer system. 
PICARD: Mister Data, can you access it? 
DATA: It will take time, sir. Downloading this into our system will
require fabrication of a matrix translator to emulate the alien's
computer system. 
PICARD: Keep me apprised of your progress. 
DATA: Aye, sir.

[Sickbay - room four]

TEMPLE: Limb re-fusion appears to be successful,
Doctor. Tissue oxygenation is within norms. 
CRUSHER: That's all we can do for now. We won't be able to test
neuromuscular function for a few days. 
(Geordi enters) 
CRUSHER: Ah, Geordi. 
LAFORGE: Can I go now, Doc? 
CRUSHER: No need to keep you here. Your bioscan came out negative. 
LAFORGE: Could've told you that. I feel great. 
(Geordi leaves as Picard enters) 
PICARD: How's your patient? 
CRUSHER: I never thought he'd make it this far. There was major trauma
to his head and chest cavity, massive plasma loss, and severe damage to
most of his organs. 
PICARD: What are his chances? 
CRUSHER: I believe he's going to live. I'm afraid I can't take the
credit for it, though. His body seems to have amazing recuperative
powers. The damaged tissue seems to be repairing itself at a phenomenal
rate. There's one thing that troubles me though. 
PICARD: What's that? 
CRUSHER: Take a look at this. 
(She pulls up a large wall display of green things running through
blood vessels) 
PICARD: Cell regeneration? 
CRUSHER: Yes. The thing is, it has nothing to do with the injuries.
These are undamaged cells that seem to be mutating. 
PICARD: Do you have a theory as to the cause? 
CRUSHER: No. I've never seen anything like it in my life. There is a
possibility
that it's part of his natural healing process. I hope it is, because
there's nothing I can do to stop it.

[Ten Forward]

LAFORGE: I'm telling you Data, there's got to be
some way to decode the information in this thing. 
DATA: I agree Geordi. But the data matrix within the capsule does not
correspond to any standard format. All we have been able to determine
is that the device contains a chemically based system for molecular
energy encoding. 
LAFORGE: Yeah, and the computer still can't analyse the specific
chemical elements involved. It's got to be part of the data processing
system. What if it's a feedback loop controller? 
DATA: The compact shape does suggest a rapid chemical processing and
storage capacity. 
LAFORGE: We found it near the escape pod's instrumentation assemblage.
This capsule might process the ship's dynamic motions and augment its
manual control inputs. We could send it a few test signals, make it
think the entire assemblage was awake and operating. 
DATA: An intriguing experiment. The capsule might provide us with
information without the need to decode the storage medium itself.
Perhaps we should examine your theory immediately. 
WORF: Less talk, more synthahol. We came here to relax. 
LAFORGE: I am relaxed. In fact, I've never felt better. But you know,
Worf, you're right. The storage capsule can wait awhile. 
(He goes over to the object of his earlier failed attentions) 
LAFORGE: Christi, you're not leaving, are you? 
CHRISTI: I was just on my way down to the arboretum. 
LAFORGE: Would you care for some company? 
CHRISTI: I'd love some, but I didn't think you were interested in that
kind of thing. 
LAFORGE: There are a lot of things you don't know about me. 
(Geordi and Christi leave) 
WORF: I've been tutoring him. He learns very quickly.

Medical Log, Stardate 43958.8. I have removed
patient John Doe from the emergency bio-support unit. In just thirty
six hours, most of his major organ systems have regenerated themselves
to the point where they can now function on their own.

