CRUSHER LAFORGE WORF CHRISTI PICARD JOHN DATA

[Ten Forward]

LAFORGE: I'm telling you Data, there's got to be
some way to decode the information in this thing. 
DATA: I agree Geordi. But the data matrix within the capsule does not
correspond to any standard format. All we have been able to determine
is that the device contains a chemically based system for molecular
energy encoding. 
LAFORGE: Yeah, and the computer still can't analyse the specific
chemical elements involved. It's got to be part of the data processing
system. What if it's a feedback loop controller? 
DATA: The compact shape does suggest a rapid chemical processing and
storage capacity. 
LAFORGE: We found it near the escape pod's instrumentation assemblage.
This capsule might process the ship's dynamic motions and augment its
manual control inputs. We could send it a few test signals, make it
think the entire assemblage was awake and operating. 
DATA: An intriguing experiment. The capsule might provide us with
information without the need to decode the storage medium itself.
Perhaps we should examine your theory immediately. 
WORF: Less talk, more synthahol. We came here to relax. 
LAFORGE: I am relaxed. In fact, I've never felt better. But you know,
Worf, you're right. The storage capsule can wait awhile. 
(He goes over to the object of his earlier failed attentions) 
LAFORGE: Christi, you're not leaving, are you? 
CHRISTI: I was just on my way down to the arboretum. 
LAFORGE: Would you care for some company? 
CHRISTI: I'd love some, but I didn't think you were interested in that
kind of thing. 
LAFORGE: There are a lot of things you don't know about me. 
(Geordi and Christi leave) 
WORF: I've been tutoring him. He learns very quickly.

Medical Log, Stardate 43958.8. I have removed
patient John Doe from the emergency bio-support unit. In just thirty
six hours, most of his major organ systems have regenerated themselves
to the point where they can now function on their own.

[Sickbay - intensive care]

JOHN: I am alive? 
CRUSHER: You certainly are. 
JOHN: Thank you for my life. Tell me, who am I?

Captain's log, stardate 43960.6. Our mission to map
the Zeta Gelis star cluster is proceeding on schedule. Meanwhile,
Doctor Crusher reports that the recovery of the patient she has named
John Doe continues at a remarkable pace.

[Sickbay - room four]

(John is receiving laser therapy for his arms) 
CRUSHER: Are you experiencing any discomfort? 
JOHN: None. I can feel the life returning to my body. 
CRUSHER: Your neurofibre waves are functioning almost normally again.
That puts you about six weeks ahead of my original schedule. 
JOHN: That should give you and your colleagues something to talk about.

CRUSHER: You are all we've talked about since your arrival. 
JOHN: I believe I'm ready for the next phase of my treatment. 
CRUSHER: You are right. It is time you stopped taking up valuable bed
space. Now these motor-assist bands will provide you with electrical
stimulation for your arms and legs. They will help you re-learn how to
control your muscles again. But remember, you've been off your feet for
almost a month, so don't be disappointed if at first your mobility is
restricted. Your limbs are still weak. 
JOHN: I appreciate your concern, Doctor, but I think I may surprise you
again. I feel strong enough to fly. 
(He stands, takes one step forward and gently folds into Crushers arms)

CRUSHER: Whoops. 
JOHN: Perhaps I should concentrate on walking first. 
CRUSHER: Let's try again, a little more slowly this time. 
JOHN: Much more slowly. 
(He totters around the room as Picard enters, then falls over again as
he reaches them. Picard catches him this time) 
JOHN: I envy your reflexes, Captain. 
PICARD: I envy your strength of will. Doctor Crusher has been keeping
me informed of your progress. It's quite extraordinary. 
JOHN: I have an extraordinary doctor. She gave me back my life. I hope
that I am worthy of her efforts. 
PICARD: Are you still unable to recall anything about your past? 
JOHN: Unfortunately, Captain, my memories begin the moment I woke up in
Sickbay. Doctor Crusher told me you think I was in some kind of battle.
PICARD: I'm quite sure of that. Have you any idea how you came to be in
that escape pod, or what happened to the ship? 
JOHN: No. Believe me, Captain, it's a horrible feeling not knowing who
you are or where you're from. 
PICARD: Have you tried synaptic induction? 
CRUSHER: His neural nets don't conform to any known patterns.
Conventional neurotherapy has proven ineffective. Hopefully,
in time, his memory pathways will reestablish themselves naturally. 
(John winces) 
CRUSHER: That same pain? 
JOHN: Yes. I think I've made enough progress for one day. 
PICARD: Not a relapse I hope. 
CRUSHER: This is nothing to do with his previous wounds. I think this
has something to do with the continuing mutation of his cell structure.

PICARD: You still have no theory as to what's causing it? 
CRUSHER: It doesn't make any sense. 
JOHN: I seem to be a mystery, Doctor. To you and to myself.

