CRUSHER LAFORGE PICARD COMPUTER JOHN DATA

[Bridge]

LAFORGE: Data, I was thinking about the storage
capsule last night and I was wondering, what if we've been going about
this thing the wrong way? We've been trying to analyse its mechanical
properties. What if it is a biochemical storage medium? 
DATA: Are you suggesting that it employs memory RNA like an organic
cell? 
LAFORGE: Well, it does contain quantities of nucleic acids. 
DATA: Perhaps the information sequences are encoded in the molecular
patterns themselves. 
LAFORGE: Computer, scan the storage capsule. Analyse molecular
sequences on nucleic acid chains. 
(and on the science station screen appears -) 
LAFORGE: Well. what do you know. A navigational chart. 
DATA: It appears that your hypothesis was correct, Geordi. 
LAFORGE: I knew it. Captain? 
PICARD: Found something? 
DATA: We have determined that the storage cube from John Doe's escape
pod contains navigational information. 
PICARD: Can you match these stars to our charts? 
DATA: Computer, run transformational matrix calculations. Match
navigational referents to known stars in this sector. 
COMPUTER: Information on this sector is incomplete. No correlation. 
LAFORGE: I'm not giving up yet. Not after coming so close to cracking
this thing. You know, that might be flight path information from John's
ship, but without a frame of reference, I can't determine its origin
points. 
DATA: Computer, assume those paths are course corrections and derive
gravitational values for stellar objects near those flight paths. 
DATA: Most of these are ordinary G-type stars. This would appear to be
a neutron star, possibly a pulsar. 
LAFORGE: Which means that this might be a rotational time reference. 
DATA: Computer, assume these symbols are pulsars. Translate associated
values into standard temporal notations. Computer, is there a pulsar
with a rotational period of one point five two four four seconds within
sensor range? 
COMPUTER: Affirmative. 
LAFORGE: Bingo! Now, Computer, overlay navigational chart using
referenced pulsars and project a flight path back to it's origin. 
COMPUTER: Flight path originated at bearing zero zero three, mark zero
one five. Distance, two point three parsecs. 
LAFORGE: That's it, Captain. That's where John Doe came from. 
DATA: That bearing is almost directly along our planned course, sir. 
PICARD: Good. Then we can continue our mission without significant
interruption.

[Sickbay - room four]

JOHN: Home? 
PICARD: Yes. Using the information we found in your escape pod, we may
be able to return you to your people. 
JOHN: I cannot go back. 
PICARD: Why is that? 
JOHN: You must not take me home, Captain. 
CRUSHER: John, your memory, has it returned? 
JOHN: All I know is that we came out here to escape. 
PICARD: Escape? 
CRUSHER: There were others with you? 
JOHN: Yes, I was not alone. But what happened to the others, or what we
were escaping from, I cannot remember. But I do know you must not take
me back. Not yet. 
PICARD: We will not arrive in your star system for at least three
weeks. That will give us plenty of time to discuss this further. 
CRUSHER: Hopefully, by then you will have regained more of your memory.

JOHN: You're right, of course, Captain. I apologise for my outburst. 
PICARD: It's understandable. 
(Picard and Beverly leave, and John has another golden glow moment) 
[Ten Forward]

JOHN: This ship is astounding. It seems to stretch
on without end. 
CRUSHER: We can see the rest of it some other time. This is your first
day out of Sickbay and I don't want you to overexert yourself. 
JOHN: This looks like an ideal place to rest. 
CRUSHER: My thoughts exactly. 
JOHN: Truly remarkable. 
CRUSHER: What is? 
JOHN: These people. They're all so different from one another yet they
work together freely. 
CRUSHER: That surprises you? 
JOHN: It is new to me. My people are different somehow. If only I could
remember. Yesterday, for one terrifying moment, there was clarity. 
CRUSHER: You mean the energy pulse? 
JOHN: Yes. For that moment my purpose seemed clear, and then it was
gone. 
CRUSHER: The pain, the energy pulse, must be linked to the cell
mutation in the body. I wish I could help you find the truth. 
JOHN: Beverly, you've done so much for me. I only wish there was some
way I could repay you. 
CRUSHER: But you have. The friendship we've developed has made me very
happy. 
JOHN: The rapport that exists between us also means a great deal to me.
But I am on some kind of journey. Whatever brought me here, whatever is
happening to my body, is all part of that journey. And I must complete
it before any other consideration.

