OBRIEN LAFORGE PICARD JOHN WESLEY COMPUTER CRUSHER DATA

[Sickbay]

(O'Brien enters, wearing a wetsuit and clutching
his arm) 
CRUSHER: What happened to you? 
O'BRIEN: I was kayaking in the holodeck again. 
CRUSHER: You dislocated your shoulder. Sit down, I'll get the
osteotractor frame. 
WESLEY: Hi mom. We still on for dinner tonight? 
CRUSHER: Seven thirty sharp. I'll be right back. 
WESLEY: Kayaking again? 
O'BRIEN: Yeah. 
WESLEY: How's my mom's favourite patient? 
JOHN: Judge for yourself. 
(John walks around unaided) 
WESLEY: Not bad. 
JOHN: Your mom promised me a tour of the ship tomorrow. You may find
this hard to believe, but Sickbay can be an incredibly boring place to
be. 
O'BRIEN: Hey, Doc! I'm dying here. 
JOHN: Don't worry my friend. You'll be alright. 
(Beverly returns to see John put his hand on O'Brien's shoulder.
There's a golden glow) 
O'BRIEN: The pain's gone. 
CRUSHER: It's completely healed. I don't understand. What did you do? 
JOHN: I don't know. It was instinct. I just touched him.

[Crushers' quarters]

(After dinner) 
CRUSHER: I've run every test and scan on him that I can think of, and
yet there's no physiological evidence to indicate that he would possess
such powers. But then, there's so much about John that's a mystery. 
WESLEY: You know, I really like him. 
CRUSHER: He does have a certain charm doesn't he? The entire medical
staff has commented on it. 
WESLEY: You seem a little taken with him yourself. 
CRUSHER: He has a strength and serenity that I find very attractive.
And yet he's vulnerable. I guess I find him intriguing. 
WESLEY: Seems like there's a little more to it than that. 
CRUSHER: Is this your way of asking me if I'm getting romantically
involved with him? 
WESLEY: You said it, I didn't. 
CRUSHER: My feelings toward him aren't romantic exactly. I mean, I know
that the doctor-patient relationship can sometimes create a false sense
of intimacy, but this is different. There's an almost spiritual
connection. I guess I'm not making any sense, am I? 
WESLEY: I think I understand.

[Bridge]

LAFORGE: Data, I was thinking about the storage
capsule last night and I was wondering, what if we've been going about
this thing the wrong way? We've been trying to analyse its mechanical
properties. What if it is a biochemical storage medium? 
DATA: Are you suggesting that it employs memory RNA like an organic
cell? 
LAFORGE: Well, it does contain quantities of nucleic acids. 
DATA: Perhaps the information sequences are encoded in the molecular
patterns themselves. 
LAFORGE: Computer, scan the storage capsule. Analyse molecular
sequences on nucleic acid chains. 
(and on the science station screen appears -) 
LAFORGE: Well. what do you know. A navigational chart. 
DATA: It appears that your hypothesis was correct, Geordi. 
LAFORGE: I knew it. Captain? 
PICARD: Found something? 
DATA: We have determined that the storage cube from John Doe's escape
pod contains navigational information. 
PICARD: Can you match these stars to our charts? 
DATA: Computer, run transformational matrix calculations. Match
navigational referents to known stars in this sector. 
COMPUTER: Information on this sector is incomplete. No correlation. 
LAFORGE: I'm not giving up yet. Not after coming so close to cracking
this thing. You know, that might be flight path information from John's
ship, but without a frame of reference, I can't determine its origin
points. 
DATA: Computer, assume those paths are course corrections and derive
gravitational values for stellar objects near those flight paths. 
DATA: Most of these are ordinary G-type stars. This would appear to be
a neutron star, possibly a pulsar. 
LAFORGE: Which means that this might be a rotational time reference. 
DATA: Computer, assume these symbols are pulsars. Translate associated
values into standard temporal notations. Computer, is there a pulsar
with a rotational period of one point five two four four seconds within
sensor range? 
COMPUTER: Affirmative. 
LAFORGE: Bingo! Now, Computer, overlay navigational chart using
referenced pulsars and project a flight path back to it's origin. 
COMPUTER: Flight path originated at bearing zero zero three, mark zero
one five. Distance, two point three parsecs. 
LAFORGE: That's it, Captain. That's where John Doe came from. 
DATA: That bearing is almost directly along our planned course, sir. 
PICARD: Good. Then we can continue our mission without significant
interruption.

