TROI CRUSHER PICARD RIKER JOHN SUNAD

[Observation lounge]

JOHN: I can neither confirm nor deny what the
Zalkonians told you. 
PICARD: They make serious accusations against you. 
JOHN: Their accusations may be true. I don't know. I don't believe that
I am a criminal. 
PICARD: You understand the difficult position in which I'm placed. 
JOHN: Completely, and I refuse to place your ship in danger. If
necessary, I will surrender to them. But I am convinced there's more at
stake here than my life. There's something important I must complete.
My survival is vital. If I could explain it, I would. 
PICARD: I'll inform you of my decision shortly. 
(John leaves) 
CRUSHER: Captain, you can't seriously be considering 
PICARD: We must consider all options, Doctor, and not let our personal
feelings impede our judgment. 
CRUSHER: You're going to tell me it's irrelevant that we'd be sending
him to his death. 
PICARD: Whether we approve of the Zalkonians' intentions is not the
issue. But for what it's worth, I believe John is correct that his
existence has broader ramifications than that of a simple criminal. 
TROI: Sunad thinks so. He feels personally threatened by John. 
CRUSHER: Sunad called John a disruptive influence. That's hardly a
capital offence. 
PICARD: It's not up to us to judge their laws, Doctor. 
RIKER: I know how I would feel if the situation were reversed, if they
were in our territory holding a Federation citizen. 
TROI: The Zalkonians truly don't understand our indecision about
returning John. In their eyes, we shouldn't even be involved. 
CRUSHER: But we are involved. I saved his life. For what? So that they
could chase him down and take away that life away?

[Bridge]

SUNAD [on viewscreen]: Picard, we will not tolerate
more delays. 
PICARD: Commander, let me remind you we are on a mission of
exploration. Our purpose is to establish peaceful relations with the
civilisations we encounter. 
SUNAD [on viewscreen]: We do not want relations with you. 
PICARD: If that is your wish, we will respect it. 
SUNAD [on viewscreen]: We simply want you to leave Zalkonian space as
soon as you return the criminal. 
PICARD: Commander, we will leave. It is not our policy to intervene in
the affairs of other cultures. But before I return the survivor to you,
I would appreciate a more detailed explanation of what he has done to
merit a death sentence. 
SUNAD [on viewscreen]: As I said. it is not your concern. 
PICARD: Agreed. However, there are circumstances of which you may be
unaware. The survivor has suffered a memory loss. He's therefore
ill-equipped to defend himself against your accusations. 
SUNAD [on viewscreen]: There is no defence. Our judgment is final. 
PICARD: There's something else. Since his recovery, he's manifested
unusual abilities. 
SUNAD [on viewscreen]: What kind of abilities? 
PICARD: He apparently has the power to heal injuries with a simple
touch. 
SUNAD [on viewscreen]: Lies. 
PICARD: And even to reverse death itself. 
SUNAD [on viewscreen]: Obviously he has corrupted you as well. I see I
am wasting my time. 
(all over the ship, people find they cannot breathe) 
[Sickbay]

CRUSHER: I can't breathe. 
(He gives her the golden glow) 
JOHN: It's come back to me, Beverly. I know who I am. What I am.

