RIKER JOHN LAFORGE WORF PICARD TROI SUNAD CRUSHER DATA

[Ready room]

(John is stiff and uncomfortable on a chair) 
PICARD: You admit you were trying to steal a shuttlecraft. 
JOHN: Yes. 
PICARD: So I ask you again, why? 
JOHN: I don't know. 
PICARD: Unacceptable. You had a reason. I want to know what it was.
Damn it, you nearly killed a member of my crew. 
CRUSHER: And healed him. 
PICARD: I'm not forgetting that. That's the reason he's here and not in
the brig. 
JOHN: I warned him. I told him it was dangerous. 
PICARD: Why? Why was it dangerous? What is happening to you? 
JOHN: I don't know. 
CRUSHER: The rate of metamorphosis is accelerating. It's almost as if
your body were generating an electrical field that's warping the
tissue. 
PICARD: Who are you? What are you? 
JOHN: I'm afraid. For myself. For all of you. I have to get away.
Isolate myself. Whatever is happening to me, it's dangerous. 
PICARD: As Lieutenant Worf discovered. 
JOHN: I don't want to hurt anyone. Captain, for the sake of your crew,
let me go before this happens again. 
CRUSHER: John, I don't believe you're capable of harming any 
DATA [OC]: Captain, the alien vessel is coming within weapons range.
Its shields are up. 
PICARD: I'm on my way. I want him kept under constant surveillance.

[Bridge]

LAFORGE: John, I really want to thank you. 
JOHN: For what? 
LAFORGE: I don't know how, or even why, but down on the planet you gave
me something. A new confidence. 
JOHN: I doubt I can take credit for that. Perhaps I only helped you
find something you already had. 
DATA: Captain, on screen. Alien vessel approaching at half impulse,
sir. Heading zero five one mark one one four. 
PICARD: Raise shields. Slow to one third impulse power. Bring us to one
zero three mark zero two five. Mister Worf, hail the alien vessel. 
WORF: They continue to ignore our hails, sir. 
DATA: They are scanning us, Captain. 
WORF: They are answering our hail, Captain. 
PICARD: On screen. 
JOHN: Sunad. 
(mute) 
PICARD: You know him? 
JOHN: Yes. I don't know how, but he's dangerous. 
(resume) 
SUNAD [on viewscreen]: I am Commander Sunad of Zalkon. You are
trespassing into our space and you are holding a Zalkonian citizen. 
PICARD: I'm Captain Jean-Luc Picard of the United Federation of
Planets. We do not intend transgression of 
SUNAD [on viewscreen]: You will return him to us immediately. 
PICARD: Sunad, this individual is a guest aboard our ship. We found him
dying in a shipwreck. We returned him to health. 
SUNAD [on viewscreen]: Then you aided a criminal. He is one of four
escaped prisoners. We eliminated the other three. We thought this one
dead as well. Return him so we may complete our task. 
PICARD: Of what is he accused? 
SUNAD [on viewscreen]: He is a disruptive influence. He spreads lies.
He encourages dissent. He disturbs the natural order of our society. 
PICARD: In what way? 
SUNAD [on viewscreen]: It is not your concern. I will give you two
hours to comply. 
(transmission ends) 
RIKER: Tactical analysis. 
WORF: The Zalkonian ship has a formidable armament. Their weaponry is
comparable to ours. 
LAFORGE: They're as fast and probably just as manoeuvrable. 
PICARD: Counsellor, do they mean to carry out their threat? 
TROI: I believe so. Sunad's hatred for John was evident but there's
something else. The Zalkonians are afraid of John. 
PICARD: Commander Riker, Counsellor, Doctor. John, I want you to join
us. Mister Data, you have the Bridge. Mister Worf stay at Tactical.
Counter any moves the Zalkonian makes. 
WORF: Aye, sir.

[Observation lounge]

JOHN: I can neither confirm nor deny what the
Zalkonians told you. 
PICARD: They make serious accusations against you. 
JOHN: Their accusations may be true. I don't know. I don't believe that
I am a criminal. 
PICARD: You understand the difficult position in which I'm placed. 
JOHN: Completely, and I refuse to place your ship in danger. If
necessary, I will surrender to them. But I am convinced there's more at
stake here than my life. There's something important I must complete.
My survival is vital. If I could explain it, I would. 
PICARD: I'll inform you of my decision shortly. 
(John leaves) 
CRUSHER: Captain, you can't seriously be considering 
PICARD: We must consider all options, Doctor, and not let our personal
feelings impede our judgment. 
CRUSHER: You're going to tell me it's irrelevant that we'd be sending
him to his death. 
PICARD: Whether we approve of the Zalkonians' intentions is not the
issue. But for what it's worth, I believe John is correct that his
existence has broader ramifications than that of a simple criminal. 
TROI: Sunad thinks so. He feels personally threatened by John. 
CRUSHER: Sunad called John a disruptive influence. That's hardly a
capital offence. 
PICARD: It's not up to us to judge their laws, Doctor. 
RIKER: I know how I would feel if the situation were reversed, if they
were in our territory holding a Federation citizen. 
TROI: The Zalkonians truly don't understand our indecision about
returning John. In their eyes, we shouldn't even be involved. 
CRUSHER: But we are involved. I saved his life. For what? So that they
could chase him down and take away that life away?

