RIKER OBRIEN LAFORGE CHRISTI PICARD JOHN WESLEY CRUSHER

[Sickbay - room four]

(John is receiving laser therapy for his arms) 
CRUSHER: Are you experiencing any discomfort? 
JOHN: None. I can feel the life returning to my body. 
CRUSHER: Your neurofibre waves are functioning almost normally again.
That puts you about six weeks ahead of my original schedule. 
JOHN: That should give you and your colleagues something to talk about.

CRUSHER: You are all we've talked about since your arrival. 
JOHN: I believe I'm ready for the next phase of my treatment. 
CRUSHER: You are right. It is time you stopped taking up valuable bed
space. Now these motor-assist bands will provide you with electrical
stimulation for your arms and legs. They will help you re-learn how to
control your muscles again. But remember, you've been off your feet for
almost a month, so don't be disappointed if at first your mobility is
restricted. Your limbs are still weak. 
JOHN: I appreciate your concern, Doctor, but I think I may surprise you
again. I feel strong enough to fly. 
(He stands, takes one step forward and gently folds into Crushers arms)

CRUSHER: Whoops. 
JOHN: Perhaps I should concentrate on walking first. 
CRUSHER: Let's try again, a little more slowly this time. 
JOHN: Much more slowly. 
(He totters around the room as Picard enters, then falls over again as
he reaches them. Picard catches him this time) 
JOHN: I envy your reflexes, Captain. 
PICARD: I envy your strength of will. Doctor Crusher has been keeping
me informed of your progress. It's quite extraordinary. 
JOHN: I have an extraordinary doctor. She gave me back my life. I hope
that I am worthy of her efforts. 
PICARD: Are you still unable to recall anything about your past? 
JOHN: Unfortunately, Captain, my memories begin the moment I woke up in
Sickbay. Doctor Crusher told me you think I was in some kind of battle.
PICARD: I'm quite sure of that. Have you any idea how you came to be in
that escape pod, or what happened to the ship? 
JOHN: No. Believe me, Captain, it's a horrible feeling not knowing who
you are or where you're from. 
PICARD: Have you tried synaptic induction? 
CRUSHER: His neural nets don't conform to any known patterns.
Conventional neurotherapy has proven ineffective. Hopefully,
in time, his memory pathways will reestablish themselves naturally. 
(John winces) 
CRUSHER: That same pain? 
JOHN: Yes. I think I've made enough progress for one day. 
PICARD: Not a relapse I hope. 
CRUSHER: This is nothing to do with his previous wounds. I think this
has something to do with the continuing mutation of his cell structure.

PICARD: You still have no theory as to what's causing it? 
CRUSHER: It doesn't make any sense. 
JOHN: I seem to be a mystery, Doctor. To you and to myself.

[Turbolift]

(The doors open to reveal Christi and Geordi
kissing. Riker, waiting in the corridor, coughs) 
CHRISTI: Well, this is where I get off. See you tonight in Ten Forward?

LAFORGE: Yeah, I'll be there. 
CHRISTI: Hello, Commander. 
RIKER: Miss Henshaw. 
(Christi leaves and Riker enters the turbolift) 
RIKER: Bridge. 
LAFORGE: Deck six. 
RIKER: So, you and Miss Henshaw have been seeing a lot of each other. 
LAFORGE: Every night this week. 
RIKER: Is that all? I thought you'd been walking around with that smile
on your face a lot longer than that. 
LAFORGE: I guess I have. This whole last month or so everything seems
to be going my way. I don't know what it is, but something sure has
changed around here. 
RIKER: The only thing that's changed is you. 
LAFORGE: Me? I'm the same old guy I always was. 
RIKER: If you say so. I don't remember the old Geordi having that much
success with Miss Christi Henshaw. 
LAFORGE: Well, maybe I am a little bit more confident than I used to
be.

[Sickbay]

(O'Brien enters, wearing a wetsuit and clutching
his arm) 
CRUSHER: What happened to you? 
O'BRIEN: I was kayaking in the holodeck again. 
CRUSHER: You dislocated your shoulder. Sit down, I'll get the
osteotractor frame. 
WESLEY: Hi mom. We still on for dinner tonight? 
CRUSHER: Seven thirty sharp. I'll be right back. 
WESLEY: Kayaking again? 
O'BRIEN: Yeah. 
WESLEY: How's my mom's favourite patient? 
JOHN: Judge for yourself. 
(John walks around unaided) 
WESLEY: Not bad. 
JOHN: Your mom promised me a tour of the ship tomorrow. You may find
this hard to believe, but Sickbay can be an incredibly boring place to
be. 
O'BRIEN: Hey, Doc! I'm dying here. 
JOHN: Don't worry my friend. You'll be alright. 
(Beverly returns to see John put his hand on O'Brien's shoulder.
There's a golden glow) 
O'BRIEN: The pain's gone. 
CRUSHER: It's completely healed. I don't understand. What did you do? 
JOHN: I don't know. It was instinct. I just touched him.

