RIKER OBRIEN LAFORGE WORF SHELBY PICARD WESLEY GUINAN COMPUTER DATA

[Bridge]

PICARD: Fire at will. 
WORF: Launching torpedoes. Phaser spread continuing. 
DATA: Still no damage to the Borg vessel, sir. 
(The Borg weapon cuts through the Enterprise like a hot knife through
butter, almost.) 
COMPUTER: Warning. Outer hull breach.
WORF: They're cutting into the hull. Engineering section. 
RIKER: Geordi, evacuate Engineering.

[Engineering]

LAFORGE: Computer. Evacuation sequence. 
COMPUTER: Sealing doors to core chamber. 
LAFORGE: Come on, move it, people! Let's go! Let's go! 
COMPUTER: Decompression danger, deck thirty six, section four. 
[Bridge]

COMPUTER: Sealing Main Engineering. 
SHELBY: Data, fluctuate phaser resonance frequencies. Random settings.
Keep them changing. Don't give them time to adapt. 
(Finally, boom and judder) 
WORF: The tractor beam has been released. 
PICARD: Warp nine. Course, one five one mark three three zero. Engage. 
(La Forge enters the Bridge)
WORF: They are in pursuit, Captain. 
PICARD: Maintain course. 
RIKER: Damage report, Geordi? 
LAFORGE: Hull rupture in main Engineering. The damage is pretty heavy.
We lost a lot of good people down there. 
DATA: Eleven dead, eight more unaccounted for, Captain. 
RIKER: Repair teams to Engineering. Seal hull breach. 
LAFORGE: They didn't get to the core I can control functions from here.

WESLEY: Now approaching the Paulson Nebula, sir. 
PICARD: Drop to impulse. Take us in, Ensign. 
(Enterprise glides into the purple fog) 
WESLEY: The field is getting too dense, sir. 
PICARD: Steady. Analysis of the nebula cloud, Mister Data. 
DATA: Eighty two percent dilithium hydroxyls. Magnesium,
chromium. It should provide an effective screen against their sensors,
Captain. 
PICARD: Mister La Forge, prepare to reverse engines. Full stop. 
(The Enterprise vanishes, and the Borg cube halts) 
WORF: The Borg ship is continuing scans, attempting to locate us. 
PICARD: Good. As long as they're looking for us, they won't hurt anyone
else. 
[Observation lounge]

(Running a playback of the recent encounter on the
wall monitor) 
SHELBY: Time index five one four. Data started to fluctuate phaser
resonance frequencies. The Borg's beam breaks contact. Slow playback.
Take a closer look, Commander. Mister La Forge? 
LAFORGE: There's a two percent drop in power for an instant, but it is
system wide. The phaser frequency spread was in a high narrow band. 
DATA: Conceivably, the ship's power distribution nodes are vulnerable
to those frequencies. 
LAFORGE: If we can generate a concentrated burst of power at that same
frequency distribution, I mean a lot more than anything our phasers or
photon torpedoes could ever provide. 
RIKER: How do we do that? 
WESLEY: The main deflector dish. 
LAFORGE: It's the only component of the Enterprise designed to channel
that much power at controlled frequencies. 
SHELBY: End programme. Unfortunately, there is one slight detail. In
the process, the blast completely destroys the Enterprise as well. 
RIKER: But if we could get further away, increase the deflector's
range. 
SHELBY: It could work. In the meantime, we should retune all phasers,
including the hand units, to the same frequency. 
RIKER: Proceed. I'll inform the Captain. 
SHELBY: There is one other recommendation I'd like to make, Commander.
Separate the saucer section. Assign a skeleton crew to create a
diversion 
RIKER: We may need the power from the saucer impulse engines. 
SHELBY: But it would give them more than one target to worry about. 
RIKER: It's too great a risk. 
SHELBY: I'd like the Captain to make that decision, sir. 
RIKER: Commander, I bring all the alternatives to the Captain's
attention. That'll be all. 
(Shelby, Wesley and Data leave) 
LAFORGE: I'm going to need to install higher capacity power transfers
to the deflector dish, Commander. 
RIKER: How long? 
LAFORGE: Better part of a day. 
RIKER: She gets a full head of steam, doesn't she. 
LAFORGE: She's a formidable presence, to say the least. But I'm
convinced she can help us here, Commander. 
RIKER: I am too. Don't worry about it. I can handle Shelby.

[Ready room]

PICARD: Come. 
(Riker enters, and Shelby is already sitting across from Picard) 
PICARD: Come in, Number One. Commander Shelby was just telling me of
your concerns about her plan. 
RIKER: I'm sorry if she troubled you, sir. I have already informed her 
PICARD: Yes, I entirely agree with you, Number One. It's not the time.
But the time may come when we will be required to take greater risks. I
want you to consider her plan as a fall back position. Make the
necessary preparations. 
RIKER: Very good, sir.

[Turbolift]

SHELBY: Deck eight. Battle bridge. 
RIKER: Halt. Commander, you and I need to have a conversation. 
SHELBY: You never ordered me not to discuss this with the Captain. 
RIKER: You disagree with me, fine. You need to take it to the Captain,
then fine. Through me. You do an end run around me again, I'll snap you
back so hard, you'll think you're a first year cadet again. 
SHELBY: May I speak frankly, sir? 
RIKER: By all means. 
SHELBY: You're in my way. 
RIKER: Really? How terrible for you. 
SHELBY: All you know how to do is play it safe. I suppose that's why
someone like you sits in the shadow of a great man for as long as you
have, passing up one command after another. Proceed to deck eight. 
RIKER: When it comes to this ship and this crew, you're damned right I
play it safe. 
SHELBY: If you can't make the big decisions, Commander, I suggest you
make room for someone who can.

Captain's log, stardate 43996.2. The Enterprise
remains concealed in the dust cloud. And to my surprise, the Borg have
maintained their position, waiting for us to come out of hiding. I have
no explanation for their special interest in me or this ship. We
continue to prepare our defences for the inevitable confrontation, but
I must admit, on this night I contemplate the distinct possibility that
no defence may be adequate against this enemy.

[Ten Forward]

(After going through Engineering, and signing off a
report or two, he enters what looks like a dark and empty place) 
GUINAN: Trouble sleeping? 
PICARD: Something of a tradition, Guinan. The Captain touring the ship
before a battle. 
GUINAN: Before a hopeless battle, if I remember the tradition
correctly. 
PICARD: Not necessarily. Nelson toured the HMS Victory before
Trafalgar. 
GUINAN: Yes, but Nelson never returned from Trafalgar, did he? 
PICARD: No, but the battle was won. 
GUINAN: Do you expect this battle to be won? 
PICARD: We may yet prevail. That's a conceit, but it's a healthy one. I
wonder if the Emperor Honorious, watching the Visigoths coming over the
seventh hill, truly realised that the Roman Empire was about to fall.
This is just another page in history, isn't it? Will this be the end of
our civilisation? Turn the page. 
GUINAN: This isn't the end. 
PICARD: You say that with remarkable assuredness. 
GUINAN: With experience. When the Borg destroyed my world, my people
scattered throughout the universe. We survived. As will humanity
survive. As long as there's a handful of you to keep the spirit alive,
you will prevail. Even if it takes a millennium. 
(Bang) 
WORF [OC]: Captain Picard, report to the Bridge. 
PICARD: I'm on my way, Lieutenant.

[Bridge]

RIKER: They're some kind of magnetometric guided
charges. 
(The nebula is lighting up like a thunderstorm) 
PICARD: Status of shields? 
WORF: Back to forty eight percent, Captain. 
PICARD: Mister La Forge, I may have to take us out of the nebula. I
want all the power you can give me. 
LAFORGE [OC]: Engines are ready, Captain. 
[Engineering]

LAFORGE: Recommend we adjust shield harmonics to
favour the upper EM band when you proceed. 
PICARD [OC]: Acknowledged.

[Bridge]

WORF: Direct hit, deck nine. 
RIKER: Damage report? 
WORF: Structural latching system integrity breached. 
PICARD: Prepare to take us out of here, Number One. 
RIKER: Fire up the engines. Half impulse until we clear the nebula,
then punch it to warp nine. 
PICARD: Ready phasers. Load forward torpedo bays. Engage. 
(They whoosh out of the purple fog) 
WORF: Borg tractor beam is attempting to lock on. 
PICARD: Fire at will. Continue rotating shield frequency. 
WORF: Shields failing. Tractor beam has locked on. 
(A Borg beams onto the Bridge. Worf shoots it. A second one appears.
This time the phaser bounces off a shield) 
RIKER: It's no use. They've already adapted to the new frequencies. 
(Riker tries hand to hand, and gets thrown across the Bridge. Worf is
pushed off with one hand. A third Borg appears next to Picard, grabs
him and beams away with him. The other Borg then vanish, the dead one
leaving a dark stain on the carpet) 
WORF: The Borg ship is disengaging. Leaving at warp speed. 
RIKER: Maintain pursuit. 
WORF: Borg vessel has reached warp nine. Nine point four, nine point
six. 
RIKER: Stay with them. Riker to O'Brien. Can you get a fix on the
Captain? 
O'BRIEN [OC]: Negative, sir. There's some kind of interference. I can't
lock in on his signal. 
RIKER: Senior officers, report to the Bridge. 
WORF: Sir, the coordinates they have set, they're on a direct course to
sector zero zero one. The Terran system. 
RIKER: Earth.

