PICARD [OC] RIKER LAFORGE WORF SHELBY RIKER [OC] LAFORGE [OC] TROI SHELBY [OC] WESLEY GUINAN O'BRIEN WORF [OC] BORG PICARD DATA CRUSHER O'BRIEN [OC]
walkways activated hand zero sleeping learn voice page realised

[Ten Forward]

(After going through Engineering, and signing off a
report or two, he enters what looks like a dark and empty place) 
GUINAN: Trouble sleeping? 
PICARD: Something of a tradition, Guinan. The Captain touring the ship
before a battle. 
GUINAN: Before a hopeless battle, if I remember the tradition
correctly. 
PICARD: Not necessarily. Nelson toured the HMS Victory before
Trafalgar. 
GUINAN: Yes, but Nelson never returned from Trafalgar, did he? 
PICARD: No, but the battle was won. 
GUINAN: Do you expect this battle to be won? 
PICARD: We may yet prevail. That's a conceit, but it's a healthy one. I
wonder if the Emperor Honorious, watching the Visigoths coming over the
seventh hill, truly realised that the Roman Empire was about to fall.
This is just another page in history, isn't it? Will this be the end of
our civilisation? Turn the page. 
GUINAN: This isn't the end. 
PICARD: You say that with remarkable assuredness. 
GUINAN: With experience. When the Borg destroyed my world, my people
scattered throughout the universe. We survived. As will humanity
survive. As long as there's a handful of you to keep the spirit alive,
you will prevail. Even if it takes a millennium. 
(Bang) 
WORF [OC]: Captain Picard, report to the Bridge. 
PICARD: I'm on my way, Lieutenant.

[Bridge]

RIKER: They're some kind of magnetometric guided
charges. 
(The nebula is lighting up like a thunderstorm) 
PICARD: Status of shields? 
WORF: Back to forty eight percent, Captain. 
PICARD: Mister La Forge, I may have to take us out of the nebula. I
want all the power you can give me. 
LAFORGE [OC]: Engines are ready, Captain. 
[Engineering]

LAFORGE: Recommend we adjust shield harmonics to
favour the upper EM band when you proceed. 
PICARD [OC]: Acknowledged.

[Bridge]

WORF: Direct hit, deck nine. 
RIKER: Damage report? 
WORF: Structural latching system integrity breached. 
PICARD: Prepare to take us out of here, Number One. 
RIKER: Fire up the engines. Half impulse until we clear the nebula,
then punch it to warp nine. 
PICARD: Ready phasers. Load forward torpedo bays. Engage. 
(They whoosh out of the purple fog) 
WORF: Borg tractor beam is attempting to lock on. 
PICARD: Fire at will. Continue rotating shield frequency. 
WORF: Shields failing. Tractor beam has locked on. 
(A Borg beams onto the Bridge. Worf shoots it. A second one appears.
This time the phaser bounces off a shield) 
RIKER: It's no use. They've already adapted to the new frequencies. 
(Riker tries hand to hand, and gets thrown across the Bridge. Worf is
pushed off with one hand. A third Borg appears next to Picard, grabs
him and beams away with him. The other Borg then vanish, the dead one
leaving a dark stain on the carpet) 
WORF: The Borg ship is disengaging. Leaving at warp speed. 
RIKER: Maintain pursuit. 
WORF: Borg vessel has reached warp nine. Nine point four, nine point
six. 
RIKER: Stay with them. Riker to O'Brien. Can you get a fix on the
Captain? 
O'BRIEN [OC]: Negative, sir. There's some kind of interference. I can't
lock in on his signal. 
RIKER: Senior officers, report to the Bridge. 
WORF: Sir, the coordinates they have set, they're on a direct course to
sector zero zero one. The Terran system. 
RIKER: Earth.

[Borg ship]

(Picard is escorted to a balcony, where everyone
'talks' at him) 
BORG: Captain Jean Luc Picard, you lead the strongest ship of the
Federation fleet. You speak for your people. 
PICARD: I have nothing to say to you, and I will resist you with my
last ounce of strength. 
BORG: Strength is irrelevant. Resistance is futile. We wish to improve
ourselves. We will add your biological and technological
distinctiveness to our own. Your culture will adapt to service ours. 
PICARD: Impossible. My culture is based on freedom and self
determination. 
BORG: Freedom is irrelevant. Self determination is irrelevant. You must
comply. 
PICARD: We would rather die. 
BORG: Death is irrelevant. Your archaic cultures are authority driven.
To facilitate our introduction into your societies, it has been decided
that a human voice will speak for us in all communications. You have
been chosen to be that voice.

[Bridge]

WORF: Commander, they are leading us into the heart
of our own defences. 
LAFORGE: Yeah, well, so far they haven't had any reason to worry about
our defences. 
WESLEY: Commander, if the Borg stay at warp nine point six, we'll be
forced to discontinue pursuit and power down in less than three hours. 
DATA: Two hours, forty minutes and three seconds. 
RIKER: How soon before the deflector's ready? 
LAFORGE: We're close. Few hours maybe. I know, I'll get it done in two
somehow, but Commander, I going to need serious power from the warp
engines to make this weapon work. So far we're using everything we've
got just to keep up with them. 
SHELBY: Sir, we've got to get that ship down to impulse. 
RIKER: I'm leading an away team over there to get the Captain back.
We'll find a way to bring them out of warp. Ensign Crusher, you
continue to assist Mister La Forge. Commander Shelby, you'll take the
Bridge and coordinate with Starfleet. Data, Worf, Doctor, you're with
me. 
SHELBY: Excuse me, sir. With my knowledge of the Borg 
RIKER: Those are my orders, Commander. 
TROI: Commander Riker. It is inappropriate for you to lead the away
team. Until the return of Captain Picard, you are in command of the
Enterprise. We're in a state of war, and your place is on the Bridge. 
RIKER: Commander Shelby, you'll lead the away team. Make it so.

First officer's log, stardate 43998.5. Our pursuit
of the Borg continues on a course that will take us to the very core of
the Federation. The devastation they could bring is beyond imagination.

[Transporter room]

WORF: These phasers have been retuned. Each has a
different frequency spanning the upper EM band. 
SHELBY: All right, a reminder. We only get to use each of these once,
maybe twice, before the Borg learn to adapt. Don't fire until you have
to. 
CRUSHER: What kind of resistance should we expect? 
DATA: At our first encounter, the Borg virtually ignored us when we
beamed aboard their vessel. Clearly they did not consider our being
there a threat to them. 
SHELBY: That may change, however, if we start interfering with their
plans. Shelby to Bridge. 
[Bridge]

SHELBY [OC]: Away team ready. 
RIKER: We've got fifty eight minutes before we have to power down and
disengage. 
SHELBY [OC]: Understood. 
RIKER: Proceed. Commander 
[Transporter room]

RIKER [OC]: No unnecessary risks. Clear? 
SHELBY: Very clear, sir. Shelby out. 
O'BRIEN: We've matched warp velocity for transport, Commander. 
SHELBY: Energise.

[Borg ship]

WORF: Tricorder functions minimal. 
SHELBY: Any signs of human life? 
WORF: Inconclusive. 
(They go off down one of many similar walkways. There are Borg in their
alcoves all over the place) 
CRUSHER: Look at this. This is extraordinary. 
(An upside down pyramid on the ceiling, throbbing with power) 
DATA: These appear to be some kind of power wave guide conduits which
allow them to work collectively as they perform ship functions. 
SHELBY: There's no way to take out enough of these to disable them
down. 
CRUSHER: What if we look at this from a mosquito's point of view. 
DATA: Interesting metaphor, Doctor. What is your idea? 
CRUSHER: If we sting them in a tender spot, they might stop for a
minute to scratch. 
(Further on, at an intersection with control panels) 
DATA: Distribution nodes. 
SHELBY: If we take out a few of these, it just might make them scratch.

WORF: The Captain's communicator. It is still activated. 
CRUSHER: Crusher to Picard. Can you hear me? 
SHELBY: Can you locate it, Worf? 
WORF: This way.

