TROI LAFORGE WORF SHELBY PICARD RIKER WESLEY BORG HANSON DATA

[Ready room]

RIKER: I've also ordered a standing Yellow Alert.
All Federation and allied outposts have been warned. Ops will continue
to monitor long range sensors. I've assigned Data, La Forge and Mister
Crusher to work with Commander Shelby. 
PICARD: Good. You've covered all the bases. What's your impression of
Shelby? 
RIKER: She knows her stuff. 
PICARD: She has your full confidence? 
RIKER: Well, I think she needs supervision. She takes the initiative a
little too easily. Sometimes with risks. 
PICARD: Sounds a little like a young lieutenant commander I once
recruited as a first officer. 
RIKER: Perhaps. 
PICARD: Will, what the hell are you still doing here? 
RIKER: Sir? 
PICARD: You've been offered the Melbourne. 
RIKER: I've decided not to pursue that commission at this time. 
PICARD: She's a fine ship, Will. 
RIKER: Yes, but she's not the Enterprise. With all due respect, sir,
you need me. Particularly now. 
PICARD: Indeed? Starfleet needs good captains, particularly now.
Reconsider your decision. 
RIKER: Are you telling me to leave, Captain? 
PICARD: I'm asking you to look at your career objectively. Will, you're
ready to work without a net. You're ready to take command. And, you
know, the Enterprise will go along just fine without you.

[Ten Forward]

RIKER: What am I still doing here? Deanna, I pushed
myself hard to get this far. I sacrificed a lot. I always said I wanted
my own command, and yet something's holding me back. Is it wrong for me
to want to stay? 
TROI: What do you think? 
RIKER: Maybe I'm just afraid of the big chair. 
TROI: I don't think so. 
RIKER: The Captain says Shelby reminds him of the way I used to be. And
he's right. She comes in here full of drive and ambition. Impatient,
taking risks. I look at her and I wonder whatever happened to those
things in me? I liked those things about me. I've lost something. 
TROI: You mean you're older, more experienced. A little more seasoned. 
RIKER: Seasoned. That's a horrible thing to say to a man. 
TROI: I don't think you've lost a thing, and I think you've gained more
than you realise. You're much more comfortable with yourself than you
used to be. 
RIKER: Maybe that's the problem. I'm too comfortable here. 
TROI: I'm not sure I know what that means. You're happy here. Happier
than I've ever known you to be. So, it comes down to a simple question.
What do you want, Will Riker? 
[Engineering]

SHELBY: A manipulation effect in the Borg ship's
subspace field. A definite pattern at four point eight minute intervals
during your first confrontation with them. 
LAFORGE: Might indicate high output auxiliary generators kicking in. 
SHELBY: One theory is that their systems are decentralised with
redundant power sources located throughout the ship. 
DATA: That is a reasonable conclusion. Borg technology has given each
member of their society the ability to interface and function
collectively. It is likely they have constructed their ship with the
same philosophy. 
WESLEY: You knock out one generator and another takes over without
interruption. 
RIKER: What kind of damage would we have to do to shut them down? 
SHELBY: Projections suggest that a Borg ship like this one could
continue to function effectively even if seventy eight percent of it
was inoperable. 
WESLEY: And our best shot barely scratched the surface. 
LAFORGE: Well, from what I've seen, I can't believe any of these new
weapons systems can be ready in less than eighteen months, Commander. 
SHELBY: We've been projecting twenty four. 
RIKER: Is there anything we can do here to adapt to our current defence
systems? 
LAFORGE: We'll have to go through the specs again, but. I don't know.
My mind's turned to clay. 
WESLEY: Mine too. 
SHELBY: I think we should look at modifying the plasma phaser design. 
RIKER: Commander, I think we should call it a night. That's an order.
We'll reconvene at oh five hundred. 
SHELBY: Sir, if you'll allow me to continue with Mister Data, who does
not require rest. 
RIKER: You need rest, Commander. 
SHELBY: If we have a confrontation with the Borg without improving our
defence systems 
RIKER: If we have a confrontation, I don't want a crew fighting the
Borg at the same time they're fighting their own fatigue. Dismissed.

[Observation lounge]

HANSON [on monitor]: At nineteen hundred hours
yesterday, the USS Lalo departed Zeta Alpha Two on a freight run to
Sentinel Minor Four. At twenty two hundred hours and twelve minutes, a
distress signal was received at Starbase one five seven. The Lalo
reported contact with an alien vessel described as cube shaped. The
distress signal ended abruptly, and she's not been heard from since. 
PICARD: Mister Data, how long would it take to get there at warp nine? 
DATA: One hour, seventeen minutes, sir. 
PICARD: Make it so. 
HANSON [on monitor]: We're coming with every available starship to
assist, Captain, but the closest help is six days away. 
PICARD: We'll try and keep them occupied until you arrive. 
HANSON [on monitor]: I know you will. Hanson out. 
RIKER: All hands will stand to battle stations. 
PICARD: Commander Shelby, what is the status of out defence
preparations? 
SHELBY: Mister La Forge has a plan to modulate shield nutation.
Hopefully, that'll hold them off for awhile. 
LAFORGE: At the same time, we'll be retuning phasers to higher EM base
emitting frequencies to try to disrupt their subspace field. 
PICARD: What's your assessment of our potential effectiveness? 
LAFORGE: It's a shot in the dark, Captain. But for now it's the best we
can do. 
PICARD: Dismissed.

[Bridge]

WORF: Sir, reading unidentified vessel just
entering sensor range. Bearing two one zero mark one five one. 
PICARD: Hail them, Mister Worf. 
WORF: No response, sir. 
PICARD: Move to intercept. 
WESLEY: Aye, sir. 
WORF: Sir, the vessel has already changed course to intercept us.
Approaching at warp nine point three. Entering visual range. 
PICARD: On screen. Magnify. 
(It's a nasty dark cube) 
PICARD: Mister Worf, dispatch a subspace message to Admiral Hanson. We
have engaged the Borg. 
WORF: Captain, you are being hailed. 
PICARD: I am? 
WORF: Yes, Captain. By name. 
RIKER: Data, is it the same ship we faced at J two five? 
DATA: Uncertain, Commander, but the dimensions are precisely the same. 
PICARD: On screen. I am Jean Luc 
(The viewscreen just shows the inside of the cube. The voice is made up
of many speaking as one) 
BORG [OC]: Jean Luc Picard, captain of the Starship Enterprise,
registry NCC 1701D, you will lower shields and prepare to transport
yourself aboard our vessel. If you do not cooperate, we will destroy
your ship. 
PICARD: You have committed acts of aggression against the United
Federation of Planets. If you do not withdraw immediately 
BORG: You will surrender yourself or we will destroy your ship. Your
defensive capabilities are unable to withstand us. 
(mute) 
RIKER: What the hell do they want with you? 
SHELBY: I thought they weren't interested in human life forms, only our
technology. 
PICARD: Their priorities seem to have changed. Open. 
WORF: Channel open. 
PICARD: We have developed new defence capabilities since our last
meeting and we are prepared to use them if you do not withdraw from
Federation space. 
LAFORGE [OC]: Captain. 
