TROI LAFORGE SHELBY PICARD RIKER WESLEY O'BRIEN DATA
unusual sure reference notified turns experience evidence career learn

[Shelby's quarters]

SHELBY: I don't know exactly what I'm looking for,
but we've tested the sections of the Enterprise's hull that were
damaged by the Borg. There were some unusual magnetic resonance traces.

RIKER: A Borg footprint? 
SHELBY: That's my theory. I'll see if it holds up tomorrow. I've
reviewed your personnel. I'll be assigning Mister La Forge and Mister
Data to accompany me on the away team. 
RIKER: I've already assigned them to the away team. And I'll be with
you as well, Commander. 
SHELBY: Of course. I appreciate any assistance you can offer. Tell me,
Commander. Is serving aboard the Enterprise as extraordinary an
experience as I've heard? 
RIKER: Every bit. 
SHELBY: Good. Because I intend to convince Captain Picard I'm the right
choice for the job. 
RIKER: Job? Which job? 
SHELBY: Yours, of course. I'm sorry. I heard that you were leaving. 
RIKER: If I were, I'm sure you'll be the first to know. Poker's at
seventeen hundred hours in my quarters. Deck eight.

[Riker's quarters]

(Troi is dealing five card stud) 
WESLEY: Got another king in the hole, Data? 
DATA: I am afraid I cannot answer that Wesley. And as you are a
newcomer to the game, may I say it is inappropriate for you to ask. I
will buy another card, Counsellor. 
TROI: No help there. 
LAFORGE: Fold. Again. 
TROI: Three jacks looking back for the handsome young ensign. (Shelby)
Pair of deuces stands. (Riker) Flush, possible straight flush. Your
bet, Mister Crusher. 
WESLEY: I'm in for ten. 
SHELBY: Call. 
RIKER: Now it's time for the long pants. There's your ten, and one
hundred. 
LAFORGE: He's got the straight flush, folks. 
DATA: Not necessarily. Commander Riker may be bluffing, Wesley. 
WESLEY: I don't think so. Fold. 
LAFORGE: With three jacks? What, are you kidding? Wesley, you may get
straight A's in school, but there's a lot you need to learn about
poker. 
SHELBY: Well, I've only got two pair, but I've got to see your hole
card. I'll call. 
(against the four hearts, Riker turns over the two of spades) 
LAFORGE: You got him.

[Transporter room]

RIKER: Mister Data and our guest appear to be
tardy. 
O'BRIEN: Sir, Commander Shelby and Data beamed down to the planet
surface an hour ago. 
RIKER: On whose authority? 
O'BRIEN: On hers, sir.

[Planet surface]

SHELBY: Morning. Early bird gets the worm, eh?
We've had some interesting results. 
RIKER: Commander Shelby. Walk with me, Commander. 
DATA: Early bird? I believe Commander Shelby erred. There is no
evidence of avifaunal or crawling vermicular lifeforms on Jouret Four. 
LAFORGE: That's not what she meant, Data, but you're right. She erred. 
SHELBY: I'm sorry, but I woke up early and I saw that a weather system
was moving in it. It could have affected the soil readings. 
RIKER: So without any regard to the risk of coming down alone 
SHELBY: Really, Commander, if we ran into the Borg here, two extra
bodies wouldn't've made a hell of a difference, now would they? We had
three hours before the storm front hit, less than two hours now. Data
was available. I took him. We came. I don't see your problem. 
RIKER: My problem, Commander, is I expect to be notified before there's
a change in my orders. 
SHELBY: Noted for future reference. Do you wish to hear my report, sir?

RIKER: Go ahead. 
SHELBY: The soil contains the same magnetic resonance traces That's our
footprint. There's no doubt any more. It is the Borg.

Captain's log, stardate 43993.5. With confirmation
of the Borg's presence in Federation space, Admiral Hanson has returned
to Starbase three two four to discuss strategy with Starfleet Command.
Lieutenant Commander Shelby remains on board to continue tactical
preparations.

[Ready room]

RIKER: I've also ordered a standing Yellow Alert.
All Federation and allied outposts have been warned. Ops will continue
to monitor long range sensors. I've assigned Data, La Forge and Mister
Crusher to work with Commander Shelby. 
PICARD: Good. You've covered all the bases. What's your impression of
Shelby? 
RIKER: She knows her stuff. 
PICARD: She has your full confidence? 
RIKER: Well, I think she needs supervision. She takes the initiative a
little too easily. Sometimes with risks. 
PICARD: Sounds a little like a young lieutenant commander I once
recruited as a first officer. 
RIKER: Perhaps. 
PICARD: Will, what the hell are you still doing here? 
RIKER: Sir? 
PICARD: You've been offered the Melbourne. 
RIKER: I've decided not to pursue that commission at this time. 
PICARD: She's a fine ship, Will. 
RIKER: Yes, but she's not the Enterprise. With all due respect, sir,
you need me. Particularly now. 
PICARD: Indeed? Starfleet needs good captains, particularly now.
Reconsider your decision. 
RIKER: Are you telling me to leave, Captain? 
PICARD: I'm asking you to look at your career objectively. Will, you're
ready to work without a net. You're ready to take command. And, you
know, the Enterprise will go along just fine without you.

