HANSON PICARD RIKER OBRIEN SHELBY

[Planet surface]

RIKER: Mister O'Brien 
[Transporter room]

RIKER [OC]: Verify these are accurate coordinates
for New Providence colony. 
O'BRIEN: Coordinates verified, sir. 
[Planet surface]

O'BRIEN [OC]: You're at the centre of town. 
(The centre of town is at the edge of a massive crater)

Captain's log, Stardate 43992.6. Admiral Hanson and
Lieutenant Commander Shelby of Starfleet Tactical have arrived to
review the disappearance of New Providence colony. No sign remains of
the nine hundred inhabitants.

[Ready room]

HANSON: The truth is, hell, we are not ready. We've
known they were coming for over a year. We've thrown every resource we
have into this, but still 
RIKER: Then you're convinced it is the Borg? 
SHELBY: (blonde woman) That's what I'm here to find out. The initial
descriptions of these surface conditions are almost identical to your
reports from system J two five. 
PICARD: Commander Riker wrote those reports. He agrees with you. 
HANSON: Commander Shelby took over Borg tactical analysis six months
ago. I've learned to give her a wide latitude when I want to get things
done. That's how I intend to operate here. 
SHELBY: My priority has been to develop some kind, any kind of defence
strategy 
RIKER: Obviously nothing we have now can stop them. 
SHELBY: We've been designing new weapons but they're all still on the
drawing board. 
HANSON: We expected much more lead time. Your encounter with the Borg
was over seven thousand light years away. 
PICARD: If this is the Borg, it would indicate they have a source of
power far superior to our own. 
SHELBY: I'd like to see the colony site as soon as possible, Captain. 
RIKER: It'll be dark there in thirty minutes. We've scheduled an away
team for dawn. 
PICARD: Number One, why don't you show the Commander to her quarters? 
RIKER: It's our poker night, Admiral. There's always an open seat for
you. 
HANSON: Another time, Commander. Your captain and I have a lot to
cover. But rumour has it Commander Shelby's played a hand or two. 
(Riker and Shelby leave) 
HANSON: Keep your eye on her, Jean Luc. She's one very impressive young
lady. 
PICARD: You seem rather taken with her, JP. 
HANSON: Just an old man's fantasies. When Shelby came into Tactical,
every admiral's uncle had a take on this Borg business. She cut through
it. She put us on track. 
PICARD: Earl Grey? 
HANSON: Please. She'd make you a hell of a first officer. 
PICARD: I already have a hell of a first officer. 
HANSON: Don't tell me he's going to pass up another commission? 
PICARD: One's available? 
HANSON: The Melbourne. It's his if he wants it. Hasn't he told you? 
PICARD: He'll make a fine captain, JP. 
HANSON: You may want to tell him that. We're still waiting on his
decision. This is the third time we've pulled out the captain's chair
for Riker. He just won't sit down. Let me tell you something, Jean-Luc.
There are a lot of young hotshots like Shelby on their way up. Riker
could suddenly look like he's standing still next to them. He's hurting
his career by staying put. If I were you, I'd kick him in the rear end
for his own good.

[Shelby's quarters]

SHELBY: I don't know exactly what I'm looking for,
but we've tested the sections of the Enterprise's hull that were
damaged by the Borg. There were some unusual magnetic resonance traces.

RIKER: A Borg footprint? 
SHELBY: That's my theory. I'll see if it holds up tomorrow. I've
reviewed your personnel. I'll be assigning Mister La Forge and Mister
Data to accompany me on the away team. 
RIKER: I've already assigned them to the away team. And I'll be with
you as well, Commander. 
SHELBY: Of course. I appreciate any assistance you can offer. Tell me,
Commander. Is serving aboard the Enterprise as extraordinary an
experience as I've heard? 
RIKER: Every bit. 
SHELBY: Good. Because I intend to convince Captain Picard I'm the right
choice for the job. 
RIKER: Job? Which job? 
SHELBY: Yours, of course. I'm sorry. I heard that you were leaving. 
RIKER: If I were, I'm sure you'll be the first to know. Poker's at
seventeen hundred hours in my quarters. Deck eight.

