TROI OBRIEN LAFORGE SHELBY PICARD RIKER WESLEY DATA

[Riker's quarters]

(Troi is dealing five card stud) 
WESLEY: Got another king in the hole, Data? 
DATA: I am afraid I cannot answer that Wesley. And as you are a
newcomer to the game, may I say it is inappropriate for you to ask. I
will buy another card, Counsellor. 
TROI: No help there. 
LAFORGE: Fold. Again. 
TROI: Three jacks looking back for the handsome young ensign. (Shelby)
Pair of deuces stands. (Riker) Flush, possible straight flush. Your
bet, Mister Crusher. 
WESLEY: I'm in for ten. 
SHELBY: Call. 
RIKER: Now it's time for the long pants. There's your ten, and one
hundred. 
LAFORGE: He's got the straight flush, folks. 
DATA: Not necessarily. Commander Riker may be bluffing, Wesley. 
WESLEY: I don't think so. Fold. 
LAFORGE: With three jacks? What, are you kidding? Wesley, you may get
straight A's in school, but there's a lot you need to learn about
poker. 
SHELBY: Well, I've only got two pair, but I've got to see your hole
card. I'll call. 
(against the four hearts, Riker turns over the two of spades) 
LAFORGE: You got him.

[Transporter room]

RIKER: Mister Data and our guest appear to be
tardy. 
O'BRIEN: Sir, Commander Shelby and Data beamed down to the planet
surface an hour ago. 
RIKER: On whose authority? 
O'BRIEN: On hers, sir.

[Planet surface]

SHELBY: Morning. Early bird gets the worm, eh?
We've had some interesting results. 
RIKER: Commander Shelby. Walk with me, Commander. 
DATA: Early bird? I believe Commander Shelby erred. There is no
evidence of avifaunal or crawling vermicular lifeforms on Jouret Four. 
LAFORGE: That's not what she meant, Data, but you're right. She erred. 
SHELBY: I'm sorry, but I woke up early and I saw that a weather system
was moving in it. It could have affected the soil readings. 
RIKER: So without any regard to the risk of coming down alone 
SHELBY: Really, Commander, if we ran into the Borg here, two extra
bodies wouldn't've made a hell of a difference, now would they? We had
three hours before the storm front hit, less than two hours now. Data
was available. I took him. We came. I don't see your problem. 
RIKER: My problem, Commander, is I expect to be notified before there's
a change in my orders. 
SHELBY: Noted for future reference. Do you wish to hear my report, sir?

RIKER: Go ahead. 
SHELBY: The soil contains the same magnetic resonance traces That's our
footprint. There's no doubt any more. It is the Borg.

Captain's log, stardate 43993.5. With confirmation
of the Borg's presence in Federation space, Admiral Hanson has returned
to Starbase three two four to discuss strategy with Starfleet Command.
Lieutenant Commander Shelby remains on board to continue tactical
preparations.

[Ready room]

RIKER: I've also ordered a standing Yellow Alert.
All Federation and allied outposts have been warned. Ops will continue
to monitor long range sensors. I've assigned Data, La Forge and Mister
Crusher to work with Commander Shelby. 
PICARD: Good. You've covered all the bases. What's your impression of
Shelby? 
RIKER: She knows her stuff. 
PICARD: She has your full confidence? 
RIKER: Well, I think she needs supervision. She takes the initiative a
little too easily. Sometimes with risks. 
PICARD: Sounds a little like a young lieutenant commander I once
recruited as a first officer. 
RIKER: Perhaps. 
PICARD: Will, what the hell are you still doing here? 
RIKER: Sir? 
PICARD: You've been offered the Melbourne. 
RIKER: I've decided not to pursue that commission at this time. 
PICARD: She's a fine ship, Will. 
RIKER: Yes, but she's not the Enterprise. With all due respect, sir,
you need me. Particularly now. 
PICARD: Indeed? Starfleet needs good captains, particularly now.
Reconsider your decision. 
RIKER: Are you telling me to leave, Captain? 
PICARD: I'm asking you to look at your career objectively. Will, you're
ready to work without a net. You're ready to take command. And, you
know, the Enterprise will go along just fine without you.

[Ten Forward]

RIKER: What am I still doing here? Deanna, I pushed
myself hard to get this far. I sacrificed a lot. I always said I wanted
my own command, and yet something's holding me back. Is it wrong for me
to want to stay? 
TROI: What do you think? 
RIKER: Maybe I'm just afraid of the big chair. 
TROI: I don't think so. 
RIKER: The Captain says Shelby reminds him of the way I used to be. And
he's right. She comes in here full of drive and ambition. Impatient,
taking risks. I look at her and I wonder whatever happened to those
things in me? I liked those things about me. I've lost something. 
TROI: You mean you're older, more experienced. A little more seasoned. 
RIKER: Seasoned. That's a horrible thing to say to a man. 
TROI: I don't think you've lost a thing, and I think you've gained more
than you realise. You're much more comfortable with yourself than you
used to be. 
RIKER: Maybe that's the problem. I'm too comfortable here. 
TROI: I'm not sure I know what that means. You're happy here. Happier
than I've ever known you to be. So, it comes down to a simple question.
What do you want, Will Riker? 
