TROI OBRIEN WORF SHELBY RIKER WESLEY CRUSHER DATA

[Data's lab]

RIKER [OC]: What's your status? 
DATA: The initial cybernetic connection into Captain Picard's neural
net pathways has been established. Mister O'Brien is ready to process
the Borg signal through the transport pattern buffer.
RIKER [OC]: Make it so. With dispatch, Mister Data. 
DATA: Proceeding immediately, sir. Data out.
(Data has part of his hair removed to show various ports and flashing
lights in his head. Picard is on the same platform Lal used. He is
naked except for some tubes and implants) 
DATA: The neural link will be established in three stages. Doctor, I
suggest you closely observe Captain Picard's lifesigns, while at each
stage Chief O'Brien monitors my positronic matrix activity. Counsellor,
hopefully, you will be able to determine whether I am reaching Captain
Picard.
O'BRIEN: At what point should I shut it down if there's a problem?
DATA: I do not know. I have never done this before. Initiating first
neural link. 
CRUSHER: The Captain's vital signs are stable. 
O'BRIEN: Positronic activity unchanged. 
DATA: First neural connection is confirmed. I cannot report any
significant access to the Borg consciousness. 
(And Troi shakes her head)

[Bridge]

(The cube is met by three ships, which are
immediately destroyed) 
WORF: It is confirmed. The Borg have broken through the Mars defence
perimeter. 
WESLEY: Enterprise now approaching Terran system, sir. 
RIKER: Slow to impulse. Time to intercept? 
WESLEY: Twenty-three minutes, fourteen seconds, sir.

[Data's lab]

DATA: Second neural connection is confirmed. I
still cannot report any significant access. Proceeding with the final
link. 
CRUSHER: Significant increase in premotor area and hypothalamus
activity. His heartbeat is accelerating rapidly. 
O'BRIEN: Sir, your submicron matrix activity is increasing
exponentially.
DATA: Neural connections complete. I have access to the Borg subspace
signals. Processing. Processing. 
TROI: Data! 
DATA: Stand by. Processing. Processing. Fascinating. The Borg group
consciousness is divided into subcommands necessary to carry out all
functions. Defence, communication, navigation. They are all controlled
by a root command implanted into each 
(Picard wakes up and tries to get out. Data restrains the mechanical
arm, then pulls off the working 'hand' component.)

CRUSHER: Data, I'm picking up increased neural activity in Captain
Picard, localised in the prefrontal and parietal lobes. 
O'BRIEN: The Borg might be trying to terminate their link with him. 
DATA: Negative. The subspace signal configuration is unchanged. What is
causing the increased neural activity is unclear. 
TROI: No, it's not. It's him. It's Picard. 
(Picard reaches out with his organic arm and takes hold of Data,
gently) 
TROI: Troi to Bridge. 
[Bridge]

TROI [OC]: Data has made first contact with Captain
Picard. 
RIKER: Can you communicate with him, Data?

[Data's lab]

DATA [OC]: I have been unable to create a neural
path around the Borg implants, sir. It is Captain Picard himself who
has somehow managed to initiate contact. 
[Bridge]

WORF: Sir, the Borg have halted their approach to
Earth. 
SHELBY: I think we got their attention. 
RIKER: Time to intercept?
WESLEY: Two minutes, four seconds, sir. 
RIKER: They're worried. They're worried because we've got access to
Picard. Mister Data, we have two minutes to figure out what we can do
with it.

[Data's lab]

DATA: Sir, it is clear the Borg are either
unwilling or unable to terminate their subspace links. 
CRUSHER: That may be their Achilles heel, Captain. Their
interdependency. 
[Bridge]

RIKER: What do you mean, Doctor?
CRUSHER [OC]: He's 
[Data's lab]

CRUSHER: Part of their collective consciousness
now. Cutting him off would like asking one of us to disconnect an arm
or a foot

