TROI OBRIEN LAFORGE WORF SHELBY PICARD GLEASON RIKER WESLEY CRUSHER DATA

[Bridge]

(Both sections of the Enterprise, and the Borg
ship, hang quietly together in space) 
SHELBY: Captain, we've sustained damage to the impulse drive. 
[Battle bridge]

SHELBY [OC]: The saucer section is disabled. 
GLEASON: Reading subspace field fluctuations from the Borg ship. Looks
like they're getting ready to increase power. 
RIKER: Stand by, Mister La Forge. 
LAFORGE [OC]: Aye, sir. 
WESLEY: The saucer section's a sitting duck. 
RIKER: Prepare to draw their fire. 
WESLEY: Captain, the Borg ship is moving away. It's resuming its course
to Earth, sir. 
RIKER: Rendezvous with the saucer section. Lay in a course of pursuit. 
[Sickbay]

CRUSHER: There is extensive infiltration of
microcircuit fibers into the surrounding tissue. His DNA is being
rewritten. 
RIKER: Can you revive him?
CRUSHER: I'd like more time to study the structural changes in the
motor pathways. 
RIKER: We don't have more time, Doctor. Once he was wired into the
Borg, they knew everything that he knew. I just hope it goes both ways.
If we're lucky, he had access to everything we need to know about them,
especially their vulnerabilities.
CRUSHER: Jean Luc? It's Beverly. can you hear me? 
PICARD: Beverly. Crusher. Doctor. 
CRUSHER: Yes. Don't try to move. 
PICARD: I am on board the Enterprise.
RIKER: That's right.
(Picard sits up slowly) 
PICARD:: A futile manoeuvre. Incorrect strategy, Number One. To risk
your ship and crew to retrieve only one man. Picard would never have
approved. You underestimate us if you believe this abduction is any
concern. There is no need for apprehension. I intend no harm. No harm.
I will continue, aboard this ship, to speak for the Borg, while they
continue without further diversion to Sector zero zero one, where they
will force your unconditional surrender.

[Bridge]

DATA: Using multimodal reflection sorting, I have
been able to detect a complex series of subspace signals between
Locutus and the Borg ship. 
CRUSHER: That's how they're controlling him? 
DATA: It is not just a matter of control, Doctor. The signals are
interactive across a subspace domain similar to that of a Transporter
beam. I would
hypothesise that these frequencies form the basis of the Borg's
collective consciousness.
RIKER: Can't we block them?
DATA: Possibly. But as you may recall on several occasions, we have
witnessed the Borg removing key circuits from injured comrades, no
doubt separating them from the group consciousness.
RIKER: The injured Borg immediately self-destructed.
DATA: That is correct, sir.
CRUSHER: Cutting the link to Locutus might be fatal to the Captain.
RIKER: We have to find a way to reach him. We must know what he knows 
CRUSHER: Without these interactive signals, it would only be a matter
of microsurgery. I could do it. But as long as those Borg implants are
functioning, there's no way I can separate the man from the machine.
DATA: Then perhaps there is a way I can access the machine, Doctor.

[Sickbay]

PICARD: Worf. Klingon species. A warrior race. You
too will be assimilated.
WORF: The Klingon Empire will never yield.
PICARD: Why do you resist? We only wish to raise quality of life for
all species. 
WORF: I like my species the way it is.
PICARD: A narrow vision. You will become one with the Borg. You will
all become one with the Borg. The android, Data. Primitive artificial
organism. You will be obsolete in the new order. 
(Crusher gives him a hypospray and knocks him out) 
RIKER: Take him to your lab, Data. 
SHELBY [OC]: Shelby to Riker. 
RIKER: Go ahead.

[Bridge]

SHELBY: Captain, the Borg have entered Sector zero
zero one. 
(A little later, Riker and Worf enter) 
SHELBY: The Borg have dropped out of warp, sir. Jupiter outpost nine
two reported visual contact at twelve hundred hours, thirteen minutes. 
RIKER: Planetary defences?
SHELBY: Responding. No reports on effectiveness but I can't believe
that against the Borg 
RIKER: Ensign Crusher, at their current speed, when will they reach
Earth? 
WESLEY: Twenty seven minutes. 
RIKER: The soonest we could intercept?
WESLEY: Forty two minutes, sir.
RIKER: Riker to Data.

[Data's lab]

RIKER [OC]: What's your status? 
DATA: The initial cybernetic connection into Captain Picard's neural
net pathways has been established. Mister O'Brien is ready to process
the Borg signal through the transport pattern buffer.
RIKER [OC]: Make it so. With dispatch, Mister Data. 
DATA: Proceeding immediately, sir. Data out.
(Data has part of his hair removed to show various ports and flashing
lights in his head. Picard is on the same platform Lal used. He is
naked except for some tubes and implants) 
DATA: The neural link will be established in three stages. Doctor, I
suggest you closely observe Captain Picard's lifesigns, while at each
stage Chief O'Brien monitors my positronic matrix activity. Counsellor,
hopefully, you will be able to determine whether I am reaching Captain
Picard.
O'BRIEN: At what point should I shut it down if there's a problem?
DATA: I do not know. I have never done this before. Initiating first
neural link. 
CRUSHER: The Captain's vital signs are stable. 
O'BRIEN: Positronic activity unchanged. 
DATA: First neural connection is confirmed. I cannot report any
significant access to the Borg consciousness. 
(And Troi shakes her head)

[Bridge]

(The cube is met by three ships, which are
immediately destroyed) 
WORF: It is confirmed. The Borg have broken through the Mars defence
perimeter. 
WESLEY: Enterprise now approaching Terran system, sir. 
RIKER: Slow to impulse. Time to intercept? 
WESLEY: Twenty-three minutes, fourteen seconds, sir.

[Data's lab]

DATA: Second neural connection is confirmed. I
still cannot report any significant access. Proceeding with the final
link. 
CRUSHER: Significant increase in premotor area and hypothalamus
activity. His heartbeat is accelerating rapidly. 
O'BRIEN: Sir, your submicron matrix activity is increasing
exponentially.
DATA: Neural connections complete. I have access to the Borg subspace
signals. Processing. Processing. 
TROI: Data! 
DATA: Stand by. Processing. Processing. Fascinating. The Borg group
consciousness is divided into subcommands necessary to carry out all
functions. Defence, communication, navigation. They are all controlled
by a root command implanted into each 
(Picard wakes up and tries to get out. Data restrains the mechanical
arm, then pulls off the working 'hand' component.)

CRUSHER: Data, I'm picking up increased neural activity in Captain
Picard, localised in the prefrontal and parietal lobes. 
O'BRIEN: The Borg might be trying to terminate their link with him. 
DATA: Negative. The subspace signal configuration is unchanged. What is
causing the increased neural activity is unclear. 
TROI: No, it's not. It's him. It's Picard. 
(Picard reaches out with his organic arm and takes hold of Data,
gently) 
TROI: Troi to Bridge. 
