TROI LAFORGE WORF SHELBY RIKER HANSON CRUSHER DATA

[Engineering]

SHELBY: Accelerator coils are responding normally. 
LAFORGE: Excellent. Forward shields at fifty eight percent. Aft shields
sensors must be down 
SHELBY: Checking. Sensors are fine. No. Aft shields have completely
failed. Damn it. Auxiliary generators are out again. 
LAFORGE: Just the man I need. We're having some problems with the aft
shields. Generators going on and offline. I could really use your help,
Worf 
RIKER: How soon do we get underway, Geordi?
LAFORGE: Still a couple hours. Commander Shelby can fill you in. 
SHELBY: The main navigational deflector is functional again. Sherbourne
and Barclay are running through the final testing sequence now. 
RIKER: The warp reactor core?
SHELBY: Reconstruction is proceeding normally. It's slow work. If we
can nail down this shield generator problem, I agree with La Forge. We
should be at
operating capacity in two to three hours. 
RIKER: Good. 
SHELBY: Anything else, sir?
RIKER: Yes. You did a good job on the Borg ship.
SHELBY: I didn't get Picard.
RIKER: You stopped them. You gave us our shot.
SHELBY: Sir, I 
RIKER: Commander, we don't have to like each other to work well
together. As a fact of fact, I'd like you to continue to keep me on my
toes.
SHELBY: Some might define that as the role of a first officer.
RIKER: Damn, you are ambitious, aren't you, Shelby. 
SHELBY: Captain Riker, based on our past relationship, there's no
reason for me to expect to become your first officer except you need
me. I know how to get things done, and I have the expertise in the
Borg. 
RIKER: And you have a lot to learn, Commander.
SHELBY: Yes, sir.
RIKER: Almost as much as I had to learn when I came aboard as Captain
Picard's first officer. A fact he reminded me of when I commented on
what a pain in the neck you are.
SHELBY: Yes, sir.
DATA [OC]: Data to Riker. Message from Starfleet, Captain.
RIKER: Go ahead, Data.
DATA [OC]: Starfleet reports 
[Bridge]

DATA: It has engaged the Borg at Wolf three fifty
nine, sir. 
(Riker enters) 
DATA: Admiral Hanson on subspace, Captain. 
RIKER: On screen. Admiral? 
(The image is very broken up. He's bouncing around a lot) 
HANSON [on viewscreen]: The fight does not go well, Enterprise. We're
attempting to withdraw and regroup. Rendezvous with fleet 
(transmission lost)

Captain's Log, stardate 44002.3. Repairs are
complete, and the Enterprise is warping to rendezvous with Starfleet at
Wolf three five nine. Communications from the site of battle have been
cut off, possibly by Borg interference.

[Observation lounge]

RIKER: Lieutenant Worf, everyone in this room
shares my respect for your service to this ship. But right now, I need
your experience at tactical. Commander Data, I realise your very nature
omits ambition. Nevertheless, I want you to know I seriously considered
you first officer. 
DATA: Thank you, sir. 
RIKER: But this is not the time for change. I need you all where you
are, where Captain Picard always relied on you. I have been,
reluctantly, forced to conclude that Commander Shelby, our expert on
the Borg, is an ideal choice at this time for first officer. Based on
our latest communication, we can assume that the Borg survived the
fleet's attack. Your thoughts on our next encounter? 
SHELBY: What about the heavy graviton beam we were talking about?
LAFORGE: I've gone over it four times. The local field distortion just
wouldn't be strong enough to incapacitate them. 
DATA: Doctor Crusher and I have been working on an interesting premise.

CRUSHER: With our recent experience in nanotechnology, we might be able
to introduce a destructive breed of nanites into the Borg. 
SHELBY: Nanites?
DATA: Robots small enough to enter living cells.
RIKER: How long would it take to execute that? 
CRUSHER: That's the problem. Two to three weeks.
TROI: In two or three weeks, nanites may be all that's left of the
Federation.
WORF: We have the new phaser adapters. 
LAFORGE: maybe in concert with photon torpedoes we can slow them down. 
RIKER: I'm sure Captain Picard would have something meaningful and
inspirational to say right now. To tell you the truth, I wish he were
here, because I'd like to hear it too. I know how difficult this
transition has been for all of you. I can take over for him, but I
could never replace Captain Picard. Nor would I ever try. Whatever the
outcome, I'm sure our efforts in the coming battle will justify his
faith in all of us. Dismissed.

