RIKER PICARD [on viewscreen] WORF SHELBY COMPUTER HANSON [on monitor] CRUSHER LAFORGE
starships ve opening thermal limit know want freshman casualty

 [Bridge]

LAFORGE: Deflector power approaching maximum
limits. Energy discharge in six seconds. 
WORF: Firing, sir. 
(A massive ray of energy goes out) 
WORF: The Borg ship is undamaged.
SHELBY: Impossible. 
COMPUTER: Warning. Warp reactor core primary coolant failure.
LAFORGE: Can't maintain it much longer, Commander. 
COMPUTER: Warning. Exceeding reaction chamber thermal limit.
RIKER: Cease fire. 
LAFORGE: Shutting down warp engines.
RIKER: They couldn't have adapted that quickly. 
PICARD [on viewscreen]: The knowledge and experience of the human
Picard is part of us now. It has prepared us for all possible courses
of action. Your resistance is hopeless, Number One.

First Officer's log, stardate 44001.4. The Borg
ship has resumed its course toward Earth. We are unable to pursue
pending repairs to the Enterprise.

[Observation lounge]

RIKER: As we anticipated, the blast burned out our
main navigational deflector. We also have damage to our shields and our
reactor core.
LAFORGE: We should be back up in eight to twelve hours, Admiral.
HANSON [on monitor]: Well, we'll miss you at the party.
RIKER: The Enterprise'll be there, sir. Maybe a little late, but we'll
be there, sir. 
HANSON [on monitor]: Your engagements have given us valuable time.
We've mobilised a fleet of forty starships at Wolf three five nine, and
that's just for starters. The Klingons are sending warships. Hell,
we've even thought about opening communications with the Romulans. 
SHELBY: You realise, Admiral, that with the assistance of Captain
Picard, the Borg will be prepared for your defences.
HANSON [on monitor]: Lieutenant a few years ago, I watched a freshman
cadet pass four upper classman on the last hill of the forty kilometre
run on Danula Two. The damndest thing I ever saw. The only freshman to
ever win the Academy marathon. I made it my business to get to know
that young fellow. I got to know him very, very well. And I'll tell you
something. I never met anyone with more drive, determination or more
courage than Jean-Luc Picard. There is no way in hell that he would
assist the Borg. I want that clear.
SHELBY: Of course, Admiral. 
HANSON [on monitor]: He is a casualty of war.
CRUSHER: Then we have abandoned all hope of recovering him.
HANSON [on monitor]: In less than twenty four hours, this armada's
going to hit that Borg vessel with everything we can muster. Either
they survive or we do. As for Picard. A great man has been lost. Your
Captain. My friend. Commander Riker, I hereby promote you to the field
commission of Captain. The Enterprise is your ship now.
Congratulations. I wish the circumstances were different.
RIKER: Likewise. Good luck, Admiral.
HANSON [on monitor]: To us all.

