RIKER OBRIEN LAFORGE WORF SHELBY PICARD GLEASON WESLEY CRUSHER DATA

[Battle bridge]

DATA [OC]: Onto the Borg ship from here, sir 
RIKER: Proceed.

[Borg ship]

(Worf and Data materialise, and head towards Picard
the Borg. They each shoot two drones before Worf goes hand to hand with
Picard. Data shoots a third drone) 
WORF: Data! 
(Borg Picard is easily as strong as Worf. Data does something to the
back of Picard's neck to knock him out, then all three beam back aboard
the shuttlecraft)

[Shuttlecraft]

WORF: Mission accomplished. We have him. 
DATA: Firing shuttle thrusters. 
(The shuttlecraft goes back out through the Borg shield)

[Battle bridge]

WESLEY: They're clear of the Borg field, sir. 
RIKER: Beam them out of there, Mister O'Brien.

[Transporter room]

O'BRIEN: Locked in 
(The Borg destroy the shuttlecraft) 
O'BRIEN: Transport successful, sir.

[Bridge]

(Both sections of the Enterprise, and the Borg
ship, hang quietly together in space) 
SHELBY: Captain, we've sustained damage to the impulse drive. 
[Battle bridge]

SHELBY [OC]: The saucer section is disabled. 
GLEASON: Reading subspace field fluctuations from the Borg ship. Looks
like they're getting ready to increase power. 
RIKER: Stand by, Mister La Forge. 
LAFORGE [OC]: Aye, sir. 
WESLEY: The saucer section's a sitting duck. 
RIKER: Prepare to draw their fire. 
WESLEY: Captain, the Borg ship is moving away. It's resuming its course
to Earth, sir. 
RIKER: Rendezvous with the saucer section. Lay in a course of pursuit. 
[Sickbay]

CRUSHER: There is extensive infiltration of
microcircuit fibers into the surrounding tissue. His DNA is being
rewritten. 
RIKER: Can you revive him?
CRUSHER: I'd like more time to study the structural changes in the
motor pathways. 
RIKER: We don't have more time, Doctor. Once he was wired into the
Borg, they knew everything that he knew. I just hope it goes both ways.
If we're lucky, he had access to everything we need to know about them,
especially their vulnerabilities.
CRUSHER: Jean Luc? It's Beverly. can you hear me? 
PICARD: Beverly. Crusher. Doctor. 
CRUSHER: Yes. Don't try to move. 
PICARD: I am on board the Enterprise.
RIKER: That's right.
(Picard sits up slowly) 
PICARD:: A futile manoeuvre. Incorrect strategy, Number One. To risk
your ship and crew to retrieve only one man. Picard would never have
approved. You underestimate us if you believe this abduction is any
concern. There is no need for apprehension. I intend no harm. No harm.
I will continue, aboard this ship, to speak for the Borg, while they
continue without further diversion to Sector zero zero one, where they
will force your unconditional surrender.

[Bridge]

DATA: Using multimodal reflection sorting, I have
been able to detect a complex series of subspace signals between
Locutus and the Borg ship. 
CRUSHER: That's how they're controlling him? 
DATA: It is not just a matter of control, Doctor. The signals are
interactive across a subspace domain similar to that of a Transporter
beam. I would
hypothesise that these frequencies form the basis of the Borg's
collective consciousness.
RIKER: Can't we block them?
DATA: Possibly. But as you may recall on several occasions, we have
witnessed the Borg removing key circuits from injured comrades, no
doubt separating them from the group consciousness.
RIKER: The injured Borg immediately self-destructed.
DATA: That is correct, sir.
CRUSHER: Cutting the link to Locutus might be fatal to the Captain.
RIKER: We have to find a way to reach him. We must know what he knows 
CRUSHER: Without these interactive signals, it would only be a matter
of microsurgery. I could do it. But as long as those Borg implants are
functioning, there's no way I can separate the man from the machine.
DATA: Then perhaps there is a way I can access the machine, Doctor.

