TROI LAFORGE WORF SHELBY RIKER WESLEY GUINAN HANSON CRUSHER DATA

[Bridge]

DATA: It has engaged the Borg at Wolf three fifty
nine, sir. 
(Riker enters) 
DATA: Admiral Hanson on subspace, Captain. 
RIKER: On screen. Admiral? 
(The image is very broken up. He's bouncing around a lot) 
HANSON [on viewscreen]: The fight does not go well, Enterprise. We're
attempting to withdraw and regroup. Rendezvous with fleet 
(transmission lost)

Captain's Log, stardate 44002.3. Repairs are
complete, and the Enterprise is warping to rendezvous with Starfleet at
Wolf three five nine. Communications from the site of battle have been
cut off, possibly by Borg interference.

[Observation lounge]

RIKER: Lieutenant Worf, everyone in this room
shares my respect for your service to this ship. But right now, I need
your experience at tactical. Commander Data, I realise your very nature
omits ambition. Nevertheless, I want you to know I seriously considered
you first officer. 
DATA: Thank you, sir. 
RIKER: But this is not the time for change. I need you all where you
are, where Captain Picard always relied on you. I have been,
reluctantly, forced to conclude that Commander Shelby, our expert on
the Borg, is an ideal choice at this time for first officer. Based on
our latest communication, we can assume that the Borg survived the
fleet's attack. Your thoughts on our next encounter? 
SHELBY: What about the heavy graviton beam we were talking about?
LAFORGE: I've gone over it four times. The local field distortion just
wouldn't be strong enough to incapacitate them. 
DATA: Doctor Crusher and I have been working on an interesting premise.

CRUSHER: With our recent experience in nanotechnology, we might be able
to introduce a destructive breed of nanites into the Borg. 
SHELBY: Nanites?
DATA: Robots small enough to enter living cells.
RIKER: How long would it take to execute that? 
CRUSHER: That's the problem. Two to three weeks.
TROI: In two or three weeks, nanites may be all that's left of the
Federation.
WORF: We have the new phaser adapters. 
LAFORGE: maybe in concert with photon torpedoes we can slow them down. 
RIKER: I'm sure Captain Picard would have something meaningful and
inspirational to say right now. To tell you the truth, I wish he were
here, because I'd like to hear it too. I know how difficult this
transition has been for all of you. I can take over for him, but I
could never replace Captain Picard. Nor would I ever try. Whatever the
outcome, I'm sure our efforts in the coming battle will justify his
faith in all of us. Dismissed.

[Ready room]

RIKER: (to the empty chair) What would you do?
(doorbell) 
RIKER: Come.
GUINAN: May I speak to you, Captain?
RIKER: Actually, Guinan, I 
GUINAN: You know, Picard and I used to talk every now and again, when
one of us needed to. I guess I'm just used to having the Captain's ear.

(She sits in Picard's chair) 
RIKER: What's on your mind?
GUINAN: I've heard a lot of people talking down in Ten Forward. They
expect to be dead in the next day or so. They trust you. They like you.
But they don't believe anyone can save them.
RIKER: I'm not sure anyone can.
GUINAN: When a man is convinced he's going to die tomorrow, he'll
probably find a way to make it happen. The only one who can turn is
around is you. 
RIKER: I'll do the best I can.
GUINAN: You're going have to do something you don't want to do. You
have to let go of Picard.
RIKER: Maybe you haven't heard. I tried to kill him yesterday.
GUINAN: You tried to kill whatever that is on the Borg ship. Not
Picard. Picard is still here with us in this room. If he had died, it
would be easier. But he didn't They took him from us a piece at a time.
Did he ever tell you why we're so close?
RIKER: No.
GUINAN: Well, then let me just our relationship is beyond friendship,
beyond family. And I will let him go. And you must do the same. There
can only be one Captain.
RIKER: It's not that simple. This was his crew. He wrote the book on
this ship. 
GUINAN: And the Borg know everything he knows. It's time to throw that
book away. You must let him go, Riker. It's the only way to beat him.
The only way to save him. And that is now you chair. Captain. 
(Riker sits) 
WESLEY: We're approaching the Wolf system, Captain.
RIKER: On my way.

