RIKER DATA LAFORGE WORF SHELBY

[Borg operating room]

(The entity originally Picard is being augmented.
He gets a prosthetic forearm with attachments, and his skin turns
white. A single tear rolls from his eye.)

[Turbolift]

RIKER: Mister Crusher suggests we might design a
chip that would automatically retune the phasers to a random setting
after each discharge. Engineering.
WORF: That would be a great advantage.
RIKER: We should also see if there's some way that we can neutralise
their forcefields. We've got to let them know that we can adapt too,
Mister Worf. We're no longer just fighting the Borg, we're fighting the
life experience they've stolen from Captain Picard. Now how the hell do
we defeat an enemy that knows us better than we know ourselves?
WORF: The Borg have neither honour nor courage. That is our greatest
advantage.
RIKER: I hope it's enough.

[Engineering]

SHELBY: Accelerator coils are responding normally. 
LAFORGE: Excellent. Forward shields at fifty eight percent. Aft shields
sensors must be down 
SHELBY: Checking. Sensors are fine. No. Aft shields have completely
failed. Damn it. Auxiliary generators are out again. 
LAFORGE: Just the man I need. We're having some problems with the aft
shields. Generators going on and offline. I could really use your help,
Worf 
RIKER: How soon do we get underway, Geordi?
LAFORGE: Still a couple hours. Commander Shelby can fill you in. 
SHELBY: The main navigational deflector is functional again. Sherbourne
and Barclay are running through the final testing sequence now. 
RIKER: The warp reactor core?
SHELBY: Reconstruction is proceeding normally. It's slow work. If we
can nail down this shield generator problem, I agree with La Forge. We
should be at
operating capacity in two to three hours. 
RIKER: Good. 
SHELBY: Anything else, sir?
RIKER: Yes. You did a good job on the Borg ship.
SHELBY: I didn't get Picard.
RIKER: You stopped them. You gave us our shot.
SHELBY: Sir, I 
RIKER: Commander, we don't have to like each other to work well
together. As a fact of fact, I'd like you to continue to keep me on my
toes.
SHELBY: Some might define that as the role of a first officer.
RIKER: Damn, you are ambitious, aren't you, Shelby. 
SHELBY: Captain Riker, based on our past relationship, there's no
reason for me to expect to become your first officer except you need
me. I know how to get things done, and I have the expertise in the
Borg. 
RIKER: And you have a lot to learn, Commander.
SHELBY: Yes, sir.
RIKER: Almost as much as I had to learn when I came aboard as Captain
Picard's first officer. A fact he reminded me of when I commented on
what a pain in the neck you are.
SHELBY: Yes, sir.
DATA [OC]: Data to Riker. Message from Starfleet, Captain.
RIKER: Go ahead, Data.
DATA [OC]: Starfleet reports 
