PICARD TROI ENDAR CRUSHER
body moira allows ready waiting starfleet supervise battle ship

[Ready room]

ENDAR: Yes, I was in charge of the force that
repelled the trespassers on Galen Four. I must say your Federation
troops fought tenaciously. 
PICARD: Among them Connor and Moira Rossa. 
ENDAR: I suppose. After the battle, I found this squalling child
huddled by the body of a young woman, his mother presumably. There was
almost no one left alive on Galen Four. Was I to leave him screaming by
his mother's body? 
PICARD: You should have notified the Federation authorities. To conceal
him was a clear violation of our agreement. 
ENDAR: I took him in accordance with my peoples' traditions. 
PICARD: What tradition is it that empowered you to capture a helpless
child? 
ENDAR: I lost my son at the hands of humans during the conflict over
Castal One. Talarian custom allows me to claim the son of a slain
enemy. 
PICARD: Does that custom extend also to brutalising this surrogate son?

ENDAR: What are you talking about? 
PICARD: Our medical officer discovered evidence of injuries so severe,
they might be considered torture. 
ENDAR: Nonsense. I've never harmed Jono. 
PICARD: Then explain the fractured ribs, concussion, the broken arm. 
ENDAR: Broken arm? Youth. Have you ever been a father, Picard? Have you
ever had a son desperately try to win your approval, your respect? Jono
broke his ribs riding on a t'stayan. Six hooves. A very powerful beast.
The arm, in a contest with other youths. He endured the pain and won
the competition. One day, he will be a great warrior. 
PICARD: Doesn't he deserve to become more than that? His true heritage
is human, Endar. 
ENDAR: A heritage long since forgotten. 
PICARD: While on board, you are welcome to supervise the return of your
crew, but I cannot allow Jeremiah Rossa to be returned to your custody.
His true family are waiting for him on Earth. 
ENDAR: Then under no circumstances will I allow your ship to leave our
territory. 
PICARD: I have already reported our position and the nature of this
violation to Starfleet. 
ENDAR: And I've already called for reserved forces into the sector. 
PICARD: Are you saying that you're willing to go to war over this boy? 
ENDAR: Would you not for your only son? 
PICARD: We have been at peace for many years. Let us not rush headlong
into war. 
ENDAR: Then help me to avoid it. If you will allow me to see Jono, it
will be clear to you I have been a good father. He has grown up happy
in my keeping.

[Doctor's office]

PICARD: So you think it would be unwise to let
Endar see Jono? 
CRUSHER: I think it's dangerous. Abusers can have subtle but powerful
influence over their victims. 
PICARD: You see, I'm not convinced the boy has been abused, Doctor.
I've talked with the father, and if I am any judge of character, I
would say that he deeply cares for the boy's welfare. 
TROI: I sense awakening memories in the boy. This is a very fragile
time for Jono. If we send away the man he calls father without even
letting them see each other, how will we ever gain his trust? 
PICARD: Yes. There is something else to keep in mind. We are deep in
Talarian territory. A semblance of diplomacy is called for. I'm going
to agree to the meeting. 
CRUSHER: All I ask is that the visit be supervised. Don't let them be
alone together. 
PICARD: Agreed.

