PICARD RIKER ENDAR DATA WORF

[Bridge]

PICARD: Status, Mister Data? 
DATA: Q'Maire at station, holding steady at bearing zero one three,
mark zero one five. Distance five oh six kilometres. 
PICARD: Are its weapons systems active? 
DATA: Negative, sir. 
WORF: Captain Endar requests an open channel, sir. 
PICARD: On screen. 
ENDAR: I am Captain Endar of the warship Q'Maire. To whom am I
speaking? 
PICARD: Captain Jean-Luc Picard of the Federation Starship Enterprise.
We have rescued four crew members from your observation craft. They
have received medical attention. The are ready for transport. 
ENDAR: Your actions are duly noted. We will forward coordinates for
immediate transport. 
RIKER: You're welcome, I'm sure. 
PICARD: One moment, Captain. We've also discovered a human among your
crew. 
ENDAR: Jono. 
PICARD: Actually, his name is Jeremiah, Jeremiah Rossa. 
ENDAR: What is his condition? Is he injured? 
PICARD: He was not wounded in the mishap, but as a representative of
the Federation, I require an explanation. Why has this child been held
in your custody for so many years? 
ENDAR: No explanation is warranted, Captain. He is my son.

Captain's log, supplemental. Captain Endar's claim
that Jeremiah Rossa is his son is clearly unacceptable. However, to
avoid escalating tensions, I have invited the Talarian leader to come
aboard the Enterprise so that we may address the issue face to face.

[Ready room]

ENDAR: Yes, I was in charge of the force that
repelled the trespassers on Galen Four. I must say your Federation
troops fought tenaciously. 
PICARD: Among them Connor and Moira Rossa. 
ENDAR: I suppose. After the battle, I found this squalling child
huddled by the body of a young woman, his mother presumably. There was
almost no one left alive on Galen Four. Was I to leave him screaming by
his mother's body? 
PICARD: You should have notified the Federation authorities. To conceal
him was a clear violation of our agreement. 
ENDAR: I took him in accordance with my peoples' traditions. 
PICARD: What tradition is it that empowered you to capture a helpless
child? 
ENDAR: I lost my son at the hands of humans during the conflict over
Castal One. Talarian custom allows me to claim the son of a slain
enemy. 
PICARD: Does that custom extend also to brutalising this surrogate son?

ENDAR: What are you talking about? 
PICARD: Our medical officer discovered evidence of injuries so severe,
they might be considered torture. 
ENDAR: Nonsense. I've never harmed Jono. 
PICARD: Then explain the fractured ribs, concussion, the broken arm. 
ENDAR: Broken arm? Youth. Have you ever been a father, Picard? Have you
ever had a son desperately try to win your approval, your respect? Jono
broke his ribs riding on a t'stayan. Six hooves. A very powerful beast.
The arm, in a contest with other youths. He endured the pain and won
the competition. One day, he will be a great warrior. 
PICARD: Doesn't he deserve to become more than that? His true heritage
is human, Endar. 
ENDAR: A heritage long since forgotten. 
PICARD: While on board, you are welcome to supervise the return of your
crew, but I cannot allow Jeremiah Rossa to be returned to your custody.
His true family are waiting for him on Earth. 
ENDAR: Then under no circumstances will I allow your ship to leave our
territory. 
PICARD: I have already reported our position and the nature of this
violation to Starfleet. 
ENDAR: And I've already called for reserved forces into the sector. 
PICARD: Are you saying that you're willing to go to war over this boy? 
ENDAR: Would you not for your only son? 
PICARD: We have been at peace for many years. Let us not rush headlong
into war. 
ENDAR: Then help me to avoid it. If you will allow me to see Jono, it
will be clear to you I have been a good father. He has grown up happy
in my keeping.

