RIKER WORF PICARD TROI DATA CRUSHER JONO

[Guest quarters]

JONO: Why are you here, Klingon, with them? Did
they capture you too? 
WORF: They are not my captors. They are my comrades. 
JONO: Why do you take orders from a female? 
WORF: Doctor Crusher. She is my superior officer. 
JONO: Among my people, a female can never outrank a man. 
WORF: You are human, and among humans, females can achieve anything the
males can. 
JONO: I am no more human than you are. I am Talarian. 
WORF: You are confused. 
(Jono starts keening again) 
WORF: Stop that! 
JONO: I will make the B'Nar, the mourning, until I am back with my
brothers!

[Observation lounge]

DATA: By matching DNA gene types, Starfleet was
able to identify the boy as Jeremiah Rossa. 
RIKER: Rossa? 
PICARD: As in Admiral Rossa? 
DATA: She is his grandmother, Captain. He was born fourteen years ago
on the Federation colony, Galen Four. His parents, Connor and Moira
Rossa, were killed three years, nine months later when their colony was
overrun by Talarian forces. 
PICARD: I remember. There were no survivors. 
DATA: The boy was listed as missing, presumed dead. 
RIKER: I heard another Rossa was killed in action at the Krasner
outpost. 
PICARD: Tragedy seems to follow that family. The Admiral lost both her
sons. 
CRUSHER: And now she'll have something to celebrate. 
TROI: Captain, if Jeremiah is returned to his family in his present
condition, it would be a wrenching experience for everyone. Especially
for him. He needs to re-discover his identity, make some connection
with his roots. 
PICARD: I agree. Do what you can to accomplish that, Counsellor. 
TROI: I don't think I can do anything, Captain. 
PICARD: Why not? 
CRUSHER: Troi's right. It's very clear that the boy does not respond
well to women. 
DATA: The Talarians are a rigidly patriarchical society, sir. 
TROI: Jeremiah needs to build a relationship with a man, a father
figure with whom he can explore his origins. And I think it should be
you, Captain. 
PICARD: Oh, no, Counsellor! Oh, no, Counsellor, I don't think so. He
needs someone who is trained in these things. 
TROI: But you are the only person with whom he has shown any
connection. If he is to find his humanity then you are the only one who
can help him. It's up to you, Captain.

