RIKER WORF CONNAUGHT [on monitor] PICARD JONO TROI CRUSHER DATA
run monitor communication father soon ask want ready room

[Bridge]

(Picard and Troi enter) 
WORF: Captain, sensors indicate two warships approaching from the
opposite direction along the border. 
PICARD: Mister Data, what's their offensive potential? 
DATA: Talarian warships are limited to neutral particle weapons, high
energy X-ray lasers and merculite rockets. No match for the Enterprise,
Captain. 
PICARD: The last thing I want is to be forced into destroying one of
their ships. 
RIKER: They won't back off. They've been willing to fight to the death
in past encounters. 
PICARD: The lines are being drawn. All this for a chosen son. 
WORF: Captain, is it worth it, to go to war over a child? 
CRUSHER: You might not ask that, Lieutenant, if it was your child. 
PICARD: There must be a way to avoid this. 
TROI: If we can just reach Jono, help him make some connections with
his origins, he may choose to come with us. 
RIKER: You really think Endar would go along with that? 
DATA: If Endar respects Talarian custom, he may have to. According to
their tradition, a male child of fourteen has reached the age of
decision. He then undergoes a ceremony of initiation, after which he
has the freedom to make his own choices. 
PICARD: Endar's entire claim on Jono is based on Talarian custom he'd
have a hard time backing away from it now. 
WORF: Captain, there is a subspace communication from Starfleet
Command. 
PICARD: On screen. 
WORF: Sir, the message is for Jeremiah Rossa. 
PICARD: Have the boy brought to my Ready Room.

[Ready room]

(A mature woman is on the monitor) 
CONNAUGHT [on monitor]: Jeremiah? my name is Connaught Rossa. I am your
father's mother. I wish we could talk in person, but that will have to
wait. When I heard the miracle that you were alive, I wanted to reach
out to you as soon as possible. I find myself wondering what you look
like. All I can do is imagine your father at your age. You come from a
family that would make you proud. Many of them have given their lives
to bring peace to the galaxy. You are the last of the Rossas. I was so
very thankful when you were given back to us to carry on the line. Your
grandfather and I will greet you with all the love in our hearts. Have
a safe journey home, Jeremiah. 
JONO: She wears a Starfleet uniform. 
PICARD: Yes. 
JONO: What is her rank? 
PICARD: She is an Admiral. 
JONO: She outranks you? 
PICARD: Yes. 
JONO: If I were home now, I would go to the brae, and run along the
river run as fast as I could! 
PICARD: Jono. 
JONO: I can't do any of the things that calm me here. You won't let me
have my music, you won't let me make the B'Nar! I feel if I stay still
much longer I will die! 
PICARD: Jono, let me show you what I do when I get those feelings. Come
on. 
