RIKER LAFORGE WORF RIKER [OC] ENDAR LAFORGE [OC] PICARD ENDAR [on viewscreen] JONO
closer ve just communication screen felt vessels running routing

[Engineering]

RIKER [OC]: Into attack posture. Classic triangular
envelopment. 
LAFORGE: I've tapped the impulse engines for additional power to
shields.

[Bridge]

LAFORGE [OC]: We're ready, Commander. 
WORF: Commander, the Captain of the Q'Maire requests communication. 
RIKER: Here we go. On screen. 
ENDAR [on viewscreen]: Captain Picard, have you made your decision? 
RIKER: This is Commander Riker. What are your intentions, Captain
Endar? 
ENDAR [on viewscreen]: Where is Captain Picard? 
RIKER: He has been injured. I am in command now. 
ENDAR [on viewscreen]: Very well. Please prepare my son for immediate
transport. 
RIKER: I'm afraid that won't be possible. Last night, Jono attacked
Captain Picard and tried to murder him. We're holding him in custody. 
ENDAR [on viewscreen]: If he had been returned to me with the others,
this would never have happened. I hold you responsible for this
incident. 
RIKER: He will have to come with us now, Endar. It is up to Starfleet
to decide the consequences. 
ENDAR: I do not accept that decision. I repeat, you will prepare my son
for immediate transport. If he is not aboard the Q'Maire in five
minutes, you will suffer the consequences. 
(Transmission ends) 
RIKER: Red alert. 
WORF: Talarian vessels routing power to forward rockets. 
RIKER: Ready all weapons, Mister Worf.

[Sickbay]

(Jono is escorted by two security officers) 
PICARD: Jono, why did you do it? 
JONO: That does not matter. 
PICARD: Yes, I think it does. It matters to me. 
JONO: What matters is that I have attacked a Captain. I am ready to be
put to death. 
PICARD: You think you're going to be killed? 
JONO: To attack a superior is the worst offence. I will die at your
hands. 
PICARD: Jono, you're not going to die at my hands or anyone else's. 
JONO: But I have committed a terrible crime. 
PICARD: What I want to know is why? You seemed so happy just a few
hours ago. 
JONO: I was. Then I thought about my father. I felt I had betrayed him.
I'd be throwing away all that he's given me, all that I'd learned from
him. My home, running along the river, playing in the games, sharing
victory with my brothers. All the things that are part of my life. As I
grew closer and closer to you, I knew that meant leaving more and more
of that life behind. Forgive me, Captain, but I could not allow myself
to do that.

