RIKER LAFORGE WORF PICARD ENDAR JONO

[Bridge]

LAFORGE [OC]: We're ready, Commander. 
WORF: Commander, the Captain of the Q'Maire requests communication. 
RIKER: Here we go. On screen. 
ENDAR [on viewscreen]: Captain Picard, have you made your decision? 
RIKER: This is Commander Riker. What are your intentions, Captain
Endar? 
ENDAR [on viewscreen]: Where is Captain Picard? 
RIKER: He has been injured. I am in command now. 
ENDAR [on viewscreen]: Very well. Please prepare my son for immediate
transport. 
RIKER: I'm afraid that won't be possible. Last night, Jono attacked
Captain Picard and tried to murder him. We're holding him in custody. 
ENDAR [on viewscreen]: If he had been returned to me with the others,
this would never have happened. I hold you responsible for this
incident. 
RIKER: He will have to come with us now, Endar. It is up to Starfleet
to decide the consequences. 
ENDAR: I do not accept that decision. I repeat, you will prepare my son
for immediate transport. If he is not aboard the Q'Maire in five
minutes, you will suffer the consequences. 
(Transmission ends) 
RIKER: Red alert. 
WORF: Talarian vessels routing power to forward rockets. 
RIKER: Ready all weapons, Mister Worf.

[Sickbay]

(Jono is escorted by two security officers) 
PICARD: Jono, why did you do it? 
JONO: That does not matter. 
PICARD: Yes, I think it does. It matters to me. 
JONO: What matters is that I have attacked a Captain. I am ready to be
put to death. 
PICARD: You think you're going to be killed? 
JONO: To attack a superior is the worst offence. I will die at your
hands. 
PICARD: Jono, you're not going to die at my hands or anyone else's. 
JONO: But I have committed a terrible crime. 
PICARD: What I want to know is why? You seemed so happy just a few
hours ago. 
JONO: I was. Then I thought about my father. I felt I had betrayed him.
I'd be throwing away all that he's given me, all that I'd learned from
him. My home, running along the river, playing in the games, sharing
victory with my brothers. All the things that are part of my life. As I
grew closer and closer to you, I knew that meant leaving more and more
of that life behind. Forgive me, Captain, but I could not allow myself
to do that.

[Bridge]

WORF: The Q'Maire is requesting communication on a
secure channel, Commander. 
RIKER: On screen. 
ENDAR [on viewscreen]: Commander Riker, you have failed to transport my
son aboard the Q'Maire. 
RIKER: Our intentions have not changed, Endar. We're returning him to
Starfleet. 
ENDAR [on viewscreen]: I regret your stubbornness. Much will be lost. 
PICARD: One moment, Captain. Captain Endar, last night Jono attacked me
with a dagger. 
ENDAR [on viewscreen]: Which he could not have done had he been
returned to me with the others! 
PICARD: There was a crime committed on board this ship, but it was not
Jono's. It was mine. When we found Jono, it seemed so clear what had to
be done. We knew that if only we could persuade him to make the
decision to stay, then you would most likely let him. So with the best
of intentions, we tried to convince him, and in so doing, we thoroughly
failed to listen to his feelings, to his needs. That was the crime, and
it has taken a huge toll on a strong and very noble young man. And it
must be rectified. He will return home. To the only home he's ever
known. And to the father that he loves. To you, Endar. 
ENDAR [on viewscreen]: Thank you, Captain. 
PICARD: Please transmit coordinates for immediate transport.

