PICARD TROI JONO

[Picard's quarters]

PICARD: Well, I'm sure you'll see there's nothing
here to appeal to a young person. 
(Jono picks up an ornate dagger in a scabbard from the desk) 
PICARD: Put that down, please. 
JONO: It's Klingon. 
PICARD: Yes. Would you put it back where you got it. 
(Jono wrenches a sextant from it's display stand, then puts it back) 
PICARD: Well. Here we are, eh, Jono? 
PICARD: I notice you haven't taken off your gloves. 
JONO: Not here. 
PICARD: Why not? 
JONO: So that I don't have to touch an alien. 
PICARD: Jono, your Captain, Endar, has he ever hurt you? Inflicted
pain? 
JONO: Pain is not a consideration. 
PICARD: Then he has? 
JONO: I did not say that. Don't you understand? Pain is not what
matters. Passing the tests is everything. 
PICARD: Is that what they are? Tests of pain? 
JONO: You understand nothing. 
PICARD: It's true, I don't fully understand Talarians. But you are not
Talarian. 
JONO: I will not listen to this. I will not listen to your lies. 
[Ready room]

PICARD: Come. 
TROI: You wanted to see me, Captain? 
PICARD: Yes, Counsellor. Please, come in, sit down. 
(She sits) 
PICARD: You're probably not aware of this, but I have never been
particularly comfortable around children. 
TROI: Really? 
PICARD: For some reason, they just don't seem to respond to me. 
TROI: I see. 
PICARD: Frankly, I think my time would be best served carrying out the
duties and responsibilities of a Starfleet Captain. 
TROI: Seldom have I heard an explanation so well-rehearsed. 
PICARD: Look, Counsellor, I just feel that I'm not the right person for
this job. 
TROI: Strange, isn't it? You'll travel light years, dodge asteroid
storms, brave hostile aliens, and yet when asked to assume a parental
role, you cringe. Why do you suppose that is? 
PICARD: I'm not cringing. I'm just acknowledging my limitations. 
TROI: When you were a child, did you have any friends? Other children
you played with? 
PICARD: I don't think that has anything to do with anything. Well,
perhaps it was because. This is foolish. 
TROI: What were you going to say? 
PICARD: it's just that ever since I was a child I've always known
exactly what I wanted to do. Be a member of Starfleet. Nothing else
mattered to me. Virtually my entire youth was spent in the pursuit of
that goal. In fact, I probably skipped my childhood altogether. 
TROI: You know, Captain, almost no one is born being a good parent.
Most people just have to muddle through and do the best that they can. 
PICARD: Are you saying that's what I'm going to have to do? 
TROI: Yes. And you might be surprised at just how good you can be.

