RIKER WORF PICARD ENDAR TROI DATA CRUSHER JONO
observation choices nar choose lasers time ask encounters ray

[Observation lounge]

(Troi is with Endar when Picard and Jono enter) 
JONO: Endar. 
ENDAR: Jono, my son. 
(They touch foreheads, Picard and Troi turn their backs) 
ENDAR: Have they treated you well? 
JONO: Yes, Captain. Except 
ENDAR: Except what? 
JONO: I was forbidden to make the B'Nar. 
ENDAR: That's all right. I know you've mourned in your heart. Well,
Jono what do you think of these humans? 
JONO: They look like me. 
ENDAR: They want to keep you, you know. 
JONO: Yes, I know. 
ENDAR: You've reached the age of decision. What is your choice? Do you
want to stay? 
JONO: No, of course not. 
ENDAR: Then you shall not. I'm returning to the Q'Maire. I will give
the humans with a choice. If they do not make the one we know is right,
it may lead to war. You may die. 
JONO: I am ready to die.

[Bridge]

(Picard and Troi enter) 
WORF: Captain, sensors indicate two warships approaching from the
opposite direction along the border. 
PICARD: Mister Data, what's their offensive potential? 
DATA: Talarian warships are limited to neutral particle weapons, high
energy X-ray lasers and merculite rockets. No match for the Enterprise,
Captain. 
PICARD: The last thing I want is to be forced into destroying one of
their ships. 
RIKER: They won't back off. They've been willing to fight to the death
in past encounters. 
PICARD: The lines are being drawn. All this for a chosen son. 
WORF: Captain, is it worth it, to go to war over a child? 
CRUSHER: You might not ask that, Lieutenant, if it was your child. 
PICARD: There must be a way to avoid this. 
TROI: If we can just reach Jono, help him make some connections with
his origins, he may choose to come with us. 
RIKER: You really think Endar would go along with that? 
DATA: If Endar respects Talarian custom, he may have to. According to
their tradition, a male child of fourteen has reached the age of
decision. He then undergoes a ceremony of initiation, after which he
has the freedom to make his own choices. 
PICARD: Endar's entire claim on Jono is based on Talarian custom he'd
have a hard time backing away from it now. 
WORF: Captain, there is a subspace communication from Starfleet
Command. 
PICARD: On screen. 
WORF: Sir, the message is for Jeremiah Rossa. 
PICARD: Have the boy brought to my Ready Room.

