RIKER PICARD TROI DATA CRUSHER JONO

[Observation lounge]

DATA: By matching DNA gene types, Starfleet was
able to identify the boy as Jeremiah Rossa. 
RIKER: Rossa? 
PICARD: As in Admiral Rossa? 
DATA: She is his grandmother, Captain. He was born fourteen years ago
on the Federation colony, Galen Four. His parents, Connor and Moira
Rossa, were killed three years, nine months later when their colony was
overrun by Talarian forces. 
PICARD: I remember. There were no survivors. 
DATA: The boy was listed as missing, presumed dead. 
RIKER: I heard another Rossa was killed in action at the Krasner
outpost. 
PICARD: Tragedy seems to follow that family. The Admiral lost both her
sons. 
CRUSHER: And now she'll have something to celebrate. 
TROI: Captain, if Jeremiah is returned to his family in his present
condition, it would be a wrenching experience for everyone. Especially
for him. He needs to re-discover his identity, make some connection
with his roots. 
PICARD: I agree. Do what you can to accomplish that, Counsellor. 
TROI: I don't think I can do anything, Captain. 
PICARD: Why not? 
CRUSHER: Troi's right. It's very clear that the boy does not respond
well to women. 
DATA: The Talarians are a rigidly patriarchical society, sir. 
TROI: Jeremiah needs to build a relationship with a man, a father
figure with whom he can explore his origins. And I think it should be
you, Captain. 
PICARD: Oh, no, Counsellor! Oh, no, Counsellor, I don't think so. He
needs someone who is trained in these things. 
TROI: But you are the only person with whom he has shown any
connection. If he is to find his humanity then you are the only one who
can help him. It's up to you, Captain.

[Guest quarters]

(Jono is still keening) 
PICARD: Jono! Jono, why do you make that noise? 
JONO: It is the custom of my people when we are in distress. 
PICARD: Is it not also the custom of your people to listen to the
wishes of their Captain? 
JONO: Yes. 
PICARD: Then, as Captain of the starship Enterprise, I ask you not to
make that sound. 
JONO: Yes, sir. 
PICARD: Good. Well, now that's cleared up, let's, er, let's, er, let's
get acquainted, shall we? What do you think of your room? I know it's a
little sterile. But if there's anything you'd like? Pictures, perhaps,
or games. 
JONO: This is a cage. I am still your captive. 
PICARD: Oh, no, not at all. I thought you'd be comfortable here. 
JONO: Are you going to return me to my Captain? 
PICARD: We will rendezvous with the warship Q'Maire at oh seven forty
hours. We will transfer the Talarians to Captain Endar. 
JONO: Including me? 
PICARD: We'll discuss your situation with Captain Endar. 
JONO: I don't like this place. 
PICARD: We could find some other quarters. 
JONO: I've always lived with my Captain. 
PICARD: Ah. Yes, well, that wouldn't work here.

