PICARD [OC] RIKER LAFORGE WORF PICARD WESLEY COMPUTER O'BRIEN SOONG DATA CRUSHER WILLIE
says raise la hard transferred arm does security snowflake

[Engineering]

LAFORGE: He's out! Security team approaching
location.

[Corridor]

(The security team that see Data exit the turbolift
get stopped by a forcefield, then the man who follows him)
DATA: Intersection eight J, aft port. Establish. 
(Right on the noses of the team who arrive at the junction just after
him) 
WORF: I order you to stop. 
DATA: Computer, begin scan phase. 
(Worf's phaser shot is blocked. The forcefield moves with Data, pushing
Worf and his team backwards) 
WORF: No, no, that's too close.

[Transporter room]

RIKER: This has gone far enough, Data. 
DATA: Computer, three metre cross seal. 
((Riker O'Brien and a guard are trapped behind a forcefield. Riker
pulls his phaser) 
O'BRIEN: I wouldn't advise that, sir. The phase coils don't take well
to ricochets. 
RIKER: What's he doing? 
O'BRIEN: He's reactivating the site to site transport interlocks. 
RIKER: Does that mean he'll be able to 
(Data is beamed away) 
[Soong's lab]

(It's a lush jungle planet, with insect and bird
sounds. There in the midst is a typical mad scientist lair, all
coloured liquids, electricity in a jar, books scattered on most
surfaces, a skull on a shelf. Data enters and stands still. A figure in
loose clothing and slippers is currently up a ladder. He descends,
showing himself to be a very old man who looks rather like Data.) 
SOONG: You're right on time. 
(We next see Data reclining in a chair. The old man has just finished
doing something to his communicator) 
SOONG: Open. One of these. And one of these. There you are. 
(Data sits up) 
DATA: I fail to recall how I arrived here. 
SOONG: I sent for you. In a manner of speaking. 
DATA: And who are you, sir? Data to Enterprise. Enterprise, do you read
me? 
SOONG: I always loved that face. Please sit down. 
DATA: We were heading for a medical facility. I was taking the boy's
brother to Sickbay and 
SOONG: I'm sure your starship will be back for you soon. Please, sit
down. 
DATA: I must find a way to contact the Enterprise. 
SOONG: Tell me, do I look somewhat familiar to you? 
DATA: You do bear a resemblance to Doctor Noonian Soong, the
cyberneticist who constructed me. But, Doctor Soong was killed shortly
afterward by the Crystalline Entity. 
(Soong goes back up the ladder, whizzes it along it's track and finds
the book he wants) 
SOONG: There we are. It's your lucky day, Data. You've found your long
lost father, and he's alive. What do you think of that? 
DATA: But the colony was destroyed. There were no survivors. 
SOONG: I've never felt too comfortable living anywhere without a
prearranged route of escape. I admit, I wouldn't have guessed I'd be
running from a giant snowflake, but 
DATA: It is really you. 
[Engineering]

LAFORGE: Captain, the quarantine field in Sickbay. 
PICARD: You have access to it? 
WESLEY: When he transferred force field control to the Bridge, he must
have only specified fields he was planning to initiate. The quarantine
field was already operating. 
LAFORGE: Under normal circumstances, we could divert that field energy
and use it to cancel the force field protecting the Bridge, but we have
to retain the medical quarantine. 
PICARD: Determine the absolute minimum field energy Doctor Crusher
needs and use the rest to get me onto my Bridge.

[Sickbay]

CRUSHER: How are you this morning? 
WILLIE: Not so great. I'm having trouble standing up. I get sort of
dizzy. 
CRUSHER: You heard the old story about the man who goes to his doctor?
He says, Doctor, it hurts when I raise my arm like this. The Doctor
says, then don't raise your arm like that. 
WILLIE: So, if I get dizzy standing up 
CRUSHER: Then don't stand up. 
LAFORGE: Okay Doc, we're ready. If all goes well, you shouldn't notice
a thing. 
CRUSHER: Make sure it goes well, Commander. 
(La Forge and the engineer leave) 
CRUSHER: Your brother tells me that you still won't speak to him. 
WILLIE: So? 
CRUSHER: It's very hard on him, too. He feels very guilty about what
happened. He's your brother. 
WILLIE: Why is everybody so worried about him? I'm the one who's sick.
I'm the one who's going to die. 
CRUSHER: Hey, nobody is going to die, Willie. Do you hear me? Nobody!

[Bridge]

WORF: Captain, we are in. 
PICARD [OC]: We're on our way, Lieutenant. 
WORF: Computer, restore tactical station. 
COMPUTER: Deactivation of command function overrides requires Alpha Two
clearance.

