RIKER LAFORGE WORF PICARD COMPUTER O'BRIEN SOONG DATA
surfaces seven doctor beamed metre initiate contact lock mister

[Transporter room]

O'BRIEN: He discovered the site to site lockout. I
wouldn't be surprised if he 
[Engineering]

O'BRIEN: Tried to make it to a transporter room
now. 
PICARD: Mister Worf, I want security teams along the main passageways
and in every transporter
room. And see if the computer would be good enough to give you the
precise stun setting to disable Mister Data. 
WORF: Yes, sir. 
PICARD: Computer, estimate the time from this location to Starbase four
one six at warp nine. 
COMPUTER: Inquiries regarding command functions are no longer accepted
from your present location.

[Bridge]

DATA: (imitating Picard) Computer, establish a
security code for access to all functions previously transferred to
Bridge. 
COMPUTER: Enter code. 
DATA: One seven three four six seven three two one four seven six
Charlie three two seven eight nine seven seven seven six four three
Tango seven three two Victor seven three one one seven eight eight
eight seven three two four seven six seven eight nine seven six four
three seven six. Lock. 
COMPUTER: Security code intact for all specified inquiries and orders. 
DATA: Computer, initiate cascade sequence, accepting instructions from
Commander Data en route. (enters turbolift) Now.

[Engineering]

LAFORGE: He's out! Security team approaching
location.

[Corridor]

(The security team that see Data exit the turbolift
get stopped by a forcefield, then the man who follows him)
DATA: Intersection eight J, aft port. Establish. 
(Right on the noses of the team who arrive at the junction just after
him) 
WORF: I order you to stop. 
DATA: Computer, begin scan phase. 
(Worf's phaser shot is blocked. The forcefield moves with Data, pushing
Worf and his team backwards) 
WORF: No, no, that's too close.

[Transporter room]

RIKER: This has gone far enough, Data. 
DATA: Computer, three metre cross seal. 
((Riker O'Brien and a guard are trapped behind a forcefield. Riker
pulls his phaser) 
O'BRIEN: I wouldn't advise that, sir. The phase coils don't take well
to ricochets. 
RIKER: What's he doing? 
O'BRIEN: He's reactivating the site to site transport interlocks. 
RIKER: Does that mean he'll be able to 
(Data is beamed away) 
[Soong's lab]

(It's a lush jungle planet, with insect and bird
sounds. There in the midst is a typical mad scientist lair, all
coloured liquids, electricity in a jar, books scattered on most
surfaces, a skull on a shelf. Data enters and stands still. A figure in
loose clothing and slippers is currently up a ladder. He descends,
showing himself to be a very old man who looks rather like Data.) 
SOONG: You're right on time. 
(We next see Data reclining in a chair. The old man has just finished
doing something to his communicator) 
SOONG: Open. One of these. And one of these. There you are. 
(Data sits up) 
DATA: I fail to recall how I arrived here. 
SOONG: I sent for you. In a manner of speaking. 
DATA: And who are you, sir? Data to Enterprise. Enterprise, do you read
me? 
SOONG: I always loved that face. Please sit down. 
DATA: We were heading for a medical facility. I was taking the boy's
brother to Sickbay and 
SOONG: I'm sure your starship will be back for you soon. Please, sit
down. 
DATA: I must find a way to contact the Enterprise. 
SOONG: Tell me, do I look somewhat familiar to you? 
DATA: You do bear a resemblance to Doctor Noonian Soong, the
cyberneticist who constructed me. But, Doctor Soong was killed shortly
afterward by the Crystalline Entity. 
(Soong goes back up the ladder, whizzes it along it's track and finds
the book he wants) 
SOONG: There we are. It's your lucky day, Data. You've found your long
lost father, and he's alive. What do you think of that? 
DATA: But the colony was destroyed. There were no survivors. 
SOONG: I've never felt too comfortable living anywhere without a
prearranged route of escape. I admit, I wouldn't have guessed I'd be
running from a giant snowflake, but 
DATA: It is really you. 
