PICARD [OC] RIKER LAFORGE WORF PICARD WESLEY COMPUTER WILLIE LORE SOONG CRUSHER DATA
beautiful michelangelo good says raise thanks allow betrayed wanted

[Engineering]

LAFORGE: Captain, the quarantine field in Sickbay. 
PICARD: You have access to it? 
WESLEY: When he transferred force field control to the Bridge, he must
have only specified fields he was planning to initiate. The quarantine
field was already operating. 
LAFORGE: Under normal circumstances, we could divert that field energy
and use it to cancel the force field protecting the Bridge, but we have
to retain the medical quarantine. 
PICARD: Determine the absolute minimum field energy Doctor Crusher
needs and use the rest to get me onto my Bridge.

[Sickbay]

CRUSHER: How are you this morning? 
WILLIE: Not so great. I'm having trouble standing up. I get sort of
dizzy. 
CRUSHER: You heard the old story about the man who goes to his doctor?
He says, Doctor, it hurts when I raise my arm like this. The Doctor
says, then don't raise your arm like that. 
WILLIE: So, if I get dizzy standing up 
CRUSHER: Then don't stand up. 
LAFORGE: Okay Doc, we're ready. If all goes well, you shouldn't notice
a thing. 
CRUSHER: Make sure it goes well, Commander. 
(La Forge and the engineer leave) 
CRUSHER: Your brother tells me that you still won't speak to him. 
WILLIE: So? 
CRUSHER: It's very hard on him, too. He feels very guilty about what
happened. He's your brother. 
WILLIE: Why is everybody so worried about him? I'm the one who's sick.
I'm the one who's going to die. 
CRUSHER: Hey, nobody is going to die, Willie. Do you hear me? Nobody!

[Bridge]

WORF: Captain, we are in. 
PICARD [OC]: We're on our way, Lieutenant. 
WORF: Computer, restore tactical station. 
COMPUTER: Deactivation of command function overrides requires Alpha Two
clearance.

[Turbolift]

RIKER: Beverly thinks its going to be tight. Let's
hope he didn't take us too far off course. 
PICARD: Let's hope.

[Bridge]

WORF: It won't answer to my clearance, sir. 
PICARD: Computer, this is Captain Picard. Return all command functions
to the stations. 
COMPUTER: Alpha Two clearance recognised. Please enter security code. 
PICARD: Security code? 
LAFORGE: Data! I was afraid of something like this. 
WORF: Sensors are operative. 
RIKER: Well, at least that's something. What have you got? 
WORF: No fix on Data, but I am picking up a single life form on the
surface, sir. It appears human. 
PICARD: That's a human that has the answers to a lot of questions. 
WORF: Something else. 
PICARD: What is it? 
WORF: A small vessel, entering orbit. I detect no lifeforms aboard,
sir.

[Soong's lab]

(Data is rubbing his stomach while patting his
head) 
SOONG: Good. Good, good, good. Keep it up. Keep it up. Old Tom Handy
swore you'd never master that. Data, Data, whistle for me. 
(Data does his bad, off-key 'Pop goes the Weasel') 
SOONG: Oh, well. All right, that's enough. Sit down. (he inspects a
plant) Beautiful, beautiful. You know, I've been able to keep track of
you from time to time. You've become something of a celebrity in
cybernetic circles. Data, why Starfleet? 
DATA: Sir? 
SOONG: I gave you the ability to choose whatever you wanted. To do
whatever you wanted. Why Starfleet? 
DATA: It was Starfleet officers who rescued me. 
SOONG: Ah. So you decided to emulate your emancipators, huh? How
disappointing. 
DATA: What choice of vocation would have met with your approval, sir? 
SOONG: Well, I often hoped you might become a scientist. Perhaps even a
cyberneticist. 
DATA: To follow in your footsteps, as it were? 
SOONG: I see nothing wrong with that. 
DATA: May I ask you a question, sir? 
SOONG: Certainly. Anything you like. 
DATA: Why did you create me? 
SOONG: Why does a painter paint? Why does a boxer box? You know what
Michelangelo used to say? That the sculptures he made were already
there before he started, hidden in the marble. All he needed to do was
remove the unneeded bits. It wasn't quite that easy with you, Data. But
the need to do it, my need to do it, was no different than
Michelangelo's need. Now let me ask you a question. Why are humans so
fascinated by old things? 
DATA: Old things? 
SOONG: Old buildings, churches, walls, ancient things, antique things,
tables, clocks, knick knacks. Why? Why, why? 
DATA: There are many possible explanations. 
SOONG: If you brought a Noophian to Earth, he'd probably look around
and say, tear that old village down, it's hanging in rags. Build me
something new, something efficient. But to a human, that old house,
that ancient wall, it's a shrine, something to be cherished. Again, I
ask you, why? 
DATA: Perhaps, for humans, old things represent a tie to the past. 
SOONG: What's so important about the past? People got sick, they needed
money. Why tie yourself to that? 
DATA: Humans are mortal. They seem to need a sense of continuity. 
SOONG: Ah hah!! Why? 
DATA: To give their lives meaning. A sense of purpose. 
SOONG: And this continuity, does it only run one way, backwards, to the
past? 
DATA: I suppose it is a factor in the human desire to procreate. 
SOONG: So you believe that having children gives humans a sense of
immortality, do you? 
DATA: It is a reasonable explanation to your query, sir. 
SOONG: And to yours as well, Data. 
(The door opens and someone else enters) 
DATA: Lore! 
SOONG: Looks like we have ourselves a family reunion. 
(A little later, Soong is performing the same dentistry on Lore that he
did on Data) 
SOONG: Open. 
DATA: I implore you, do not reactivate him. 
SOONG: Don't be ridiculous, Data. Lore is far from the maniacal android
you have made him out to be. In any case, he'll obey me. He always did.

DATA: But he admitted to an alliance with the Crystal Entity. To gain
its favour, he betrayed the colonists and would have betrayed the
Enterprise as well had I not 
SOONG: Shh! One more. That should do it. 
(Lore wakes, sees Data, and makes a lunge for him. Soong intervenes) 
LORE: So, you're still alive. I'm surprised you woke me. Why didn't you
just take me apart again and be done with it? That is why the two of
you captured me,
isn't it? 
SOONG: Data had nothing to do with this, Lore. And nobody captured you.
Not exactly, that is. You see, both of your brains contain a simple
homing device. Data's was activated purposefully. Yours, well, until
you walked through that door I had no idea you'd ever been reassembled.

LORE: No thanks to you. But thanks to you, dear brother, I spent nearly
two years drifting in space. If it hadn't been for a fortunate
encounter with a Pakled trade ship, I'd still be out there. 
DATA: I had no alternative. You would have destroyed the Enterprise. 
LORE: Well, since I appear to be an uninvited guest at your little
party, I'll leave you with your beloved son and be on my way. 
SOONG: Lore, wait. There are questions I can answer. You'll have no
chance to ask them later. You see, I'm dying. 
(That stops Lore in his tracks) 
SOONG: Yes, I'm dying. 
DATA: Dying from what, sir? 
LORE: Wait a minute. Wait a minute. What do you mean, you're dying? You
look fine. You're not that old. You look fine. What is this? Some kind
of a trick? 
SOONG: I wish it were. 
[Observation lounge]

WORF: We have control of sensors, life support and
auxiliary power, Captain. Nothing more. 
PICARD: The code, Mister La Forge? 
LAFORGE: We can't even locate the file address. At least that would
tell us how many digits we're talking about. Not that it would really
help. 
PICARD: I want something that will really help. 
CRUSHER: And quickly too. Willie Potts has twenty four hours, thirty
six tops. If it goes much longer than that, the only thing left for
Starbase
four one six will be to do a postmortem. 
RIKER: Geordi, if the computer's programmed to allow Data to transport
down, it would figure that it would allow him to beam back up. Right? 
LAFORGE: It would figure. 
RIKER: And Data would have left a trace imprint when he beamed down? 
LAFORGE: Sure. Everyone does. 
RIKER: So what would be involved in pulling that trace and finding a
way to make the computer think someone else is Data? Maybe a few
someone
else's? 
LAFORGE: We'd have to access the transport controller, reset it to a
testing mode, convince it that it's back in school accepting simulated
inputs. That's not going to be easy without the main computer. But I
suppose we could network a few tricorders together. 
PICARD: Try, Mister La Forge. 
LAFORGE: Yes, sir.

