TROI JAKE OBRIEN LAFORGE WORF PICARD RIKER WESLEY COMPUTER DATA CRUSHER WILLIE

[Sickbay]

(Beverly is tending to her 'boy in a bubble') 
CRUSHER: Oh, Come on, I can't believe that. Everybody's played a
practical joke on somebody at one time or another. 
WILLIE: Not me. 
CRUSHER: Not even a little one? How about April Fools? I can't believe
that you're telling me that you've never tried to pull something even
on April Fools' Day? 
WILLIE: What for? It's never funny to the one getting fooled. 
CRUSHER: Well, I'm sure your brother didn't intend for it too get out
this of hand. Certainly not to the degree it has. Take a deep breath. 
WILLIE: What's so funny about making someone think you killed them? 
CRUSHER: Take a deep breath. Have you been drinking all the water I
asked you to? 
WILLIE: Yes. 
CRUSHER: Well, keep it up. There might have a short delay in reaching
starbase and I want 
(Troi and Jake enter. Willie turns his back to them) 
JAKE: There, you see? How can I tell him if he's not going to listen to
me? 
TROI: Why don't you try, Jake? 
JAKE: It's just a waste of time. He won't listen. 
(Jake rushes off down the corridor again)

[Bridge]

(The Enterprise has established orbit around a
green world) 
DATA: Computer, prepare to transport me directly to the following
coordinates. 
COMPUTER: Site to site transport interlocks have been manually
deactivated. 
DATA: Can you override? 
COMPUTER: Negative. 
DATA: Show me the shortest route to Transporter room one. Computer,
prepare to activate cascade force field sequence in the following
progression.

[Engineering]

LAFORGE: No matter what we try, the computer will
only accept commands from the Bridge, sir. 
WORF: He has blocked every subspace channel, sir. We cannot even call
for help. 
PICARD: Have you tried tracing back navigation inputs? 
WESLEY: We don't even know what star system we're in, sir. 
RIKER: The only way we knew we'd come out of warp was by looking out a
window. 
O'BRIEN [OC]: O'Brien to Captain Picard. 
PICARD: Go ahead, Chief. 
O'BRIEN [OC]: Captain, he's up to something. 
PICARD: What now?

[Transporter room]

O'BRIEN: He discovered the site to site lockout. I
wouldn't be surprised if he 
[Engineering]

O'BRIEN: Tried to make it to a transporter room
now. 
PICARD: Mister Worf, I want security teams along the main passageways
and in every transporter
room. And see if the computer would be good enough to give you the
precise stun setting to disable Mister Data. 
WORF: Yes, sir. 
PICARD: Computer, estimate the time from this location to Starbase four
one six at warp nine. 
COMPUTER: Inquiries regarding command functions are no longer accepted
from your present location.

[Bridge]

DATA: (imitating Picard) Computer, establish a
security code for access to all functions previously transferred to
Bridge. 
COMPUTER: Enter code. 
DATA: One seven three four six seven three two one four seven six
Charlie three two seven eight nine seven seven seven six four three
Tango seven three two Victor seven three one one seven eight eight
eight seven three two four seven six seven eight nine seven six four
three seven six. Lock. 
COMPUTER: Security code intact for all specified inquiries and orders. 
DATA: Computer, initiate cascade sequence, accepting instructions from
Commander Data en route. (enters turbolift) Now.

[Engineering]

LAFORGE: He's out! Security team approaching
location.

