RIKER LAFORGE WORF PICARD O'BRIEN LORE SOONG CRUSHER DATA
everybody old couldn tired doing emotions unstable allow memory

[Observation lounge]

WORF: We have control of sensors, life support and
auxiliary power, Captain. Nothing more. 
PICARD: The code, Mister La Forge? 
LAFORGE: We can't even locate the file address. At least that would
tell us how many digits we're talking about. Not that it would really
help. 
PICARD: I want something that will really help. 
CRUSHER: And quickly too. Willie Potts has twenty four hours, thirty
six tops. If it goes much longer than that, the only thing left for
Starbase
four one six will be to do a postmortem. 
RIKER: Geordi, if the computer's programmed to allow Data to transport
down, it would figure that it would allow him to beam back up. Right? 
LAFORGE: It would figure. 
RIKER: And Data would have left a trace imprint when he beamed down? 
LAFORGE: Sure. Everyone does. 
RIKER: So what would be involved in pulling that trace and finding a
way to make the computer think someone else is Data? Maybe a few
someone
else's? 
LAFORGE: We'd have to access the transport controller, reset it to a
testing mode, convince it that it's back in school accepting simulated
inputs. That's not going to be easy without the main computer. But I
suppose we could network a few tricorders together. 
PICARD: Try, Mister La Forge. 
LAFORGE: Yes, sir.

[Soong's lab]

LORE: You did what you had to do? What kind of
answer is that? 
SOONG: The only one I can give you. You were not functioning properly. 
DATA: Lore told me the colonists envied him because you made him so
completely human. 
SOONG: I wouldn't exactly have used the word envious, Data. 
LORE: You disassembled me. You took me apart. 
DATA: Lore also told me the colonists petitioned you to replace him
with a less perfect android. 
SOONG: The last thing you should think of yourself as, Data, is less
perfect. The two of you are virtually identical, except for a bit of
programming. 
DATA: It was a lie. Another lie. 
LORE: I would have proven myself worth to you, if you'd just given me a
chance. But it was easier just to turn your back and build your
precious Data. 
SOONG: You were the first. You meant as much to me as Data ever did,
but you were unstable. The colonists were not envious of you, they were
afraid of you. You were unstable. 
DATA: I am not less perfect than Lore. 
LORE: Why didn't you just fix me? It was within your power to fix me. 
SOONG: It wasn't as easy as that. The next, the next logical step was
to construct Data. Afterward, I planned to get back to you, to fix you.

LORE: Next logical step. 
DATA: I am not less perfect than Lore. 
LORE: I am not less perfect than Lore. 
SOONG: Enough! Both of you, sit down. Sit down. For all these years
I've been plagued by what went wrong. With all of your complexities,
Lore, your nuances, basic emotions seemed almost simple by comparison.
But the emotion turned, and twisted, became entangled with ambition.
Lore, if I had known you were no longer sitting in pieces on some
distant shelf, if I had known that I could simply press a button and
bring you here, I would have spent those years trying to make things
right for you as well. But all I knew of was Data. So I worked long and
hard, and now I believe I've succeeded. This is why I brought you here,
Data. Basic emotions. Simple feelings, Data. Your feelings. I've
imagined how hard it's been for you, living amongst beings so moved by
emotion. 
(Both androids stare at the tiny chip held in the tweezers) 
LORE: I don't have to imagine. I know how hard it's been. You'd be
surprised, Data. Feelings do funny things. You may even learn to
understand your evil brother. To forgive him. We will be more alike,
Data, you and I. You'll see. I'm happy for you. 
DATA: I question your sincerity, Lore. 
SOONG: Perhaps with this you'll learn to be more trusting, Data. Your
brother has had good reason to be bitter. 
DATA: But sir, Lore was responsible for 
SOONG: He wasn't given the chance that you and I were given, to live.
But now I'm sure he understands why I had to do what I had to do. 
If there were only time, Lore. What a shame. The procedure is quite
simple. I'm tired. I need to rest, first, I'm tired. 
(And he leaves the brothers eyeing each other)

[Corridor]

PICARD: They're sure this is going to work? 
RIKER: Nobody knows the transporters better than O'Brien and La Forge.
They tell me they've managed more than a little sleight of hand with
our authorisation codes. 
PICARD: They can insert them into the recall loop? 
RIKER: The computer should think all three of us are Data.

[Transporter room]

RIKER: I just hope we don't all beam back looking
like Data. 
O'BRIEN: Whenever you say, sir. 
PICARD: Bring him home, Number One. Energise. 
(Riker, La Forge and Worf beam down)

[Soong's lab]

(Soong puts the emotion chip into Data's neck, or
so he thinks, as the person is wearing a Starfleet uniform. But the
voice gives it away to us immediately) 
SOONG: Data? 
LORE: (sings) 'The sons of the prophet were valiant and bold, And quite
unaccustomed to fear. But of all the most reckless, Or so I am told,
Was Abdul Abulbul Amir.' 
SOONG: How do you feel? 
LORE: I've always loved that ditty. I could never quite get the cadence
right. Thank you, Father. 
SOONG: You called me Father. 
LORE: What would you prefer I called you? Often Wrong? 
SOONG: What did Lore tell you about that? 
LORE: That is what the colonists called you, isn't it? Often Wrong
Soong. It's a very sloppy rhyme. Wrong Soong. Wrong Soong. It just
doesn't work. Let's see. 
SOONG: Data, how you are feeling? 
LORE: Often Wrong's got a broken heart. Can't even tell his boys apart.

SOONG: Lore! 
LORE: Well, well, well, well, well. You're not as feeble as I thought
you were. 
SOONG: This won't work. Those circuits, they weren't designed for you.
Where's Data? 
LORE: Where's Data? You didn't fill Data with substandard parts, did
you, old man. No, that honour was bestowed upon me. You owe me, old
man. Not him, me! 
SOONG: It was not meant for you. You're not listening to me. It must be
removed. 
LORE: Nice try, Often Wrong. Nice try. (winces and twitches) I don't
know exactly what it's doing, but its doing something. 
SOONG: I didn't know you were alive. If I had 
(Soong reaches for Lore, who grabs his arm and throws him across the
lab) 
LORE: 'There were brave men a-plenty, All well known to fame, Who
served in the ranks of the
Tsar.' 
(Lore peels back a thumb nail -eww - and presses a tiny button there.
He is beamed away) 
[Outside Soong's lab]

WORF: The human is here. 
RIKER: And Data? 
WORF: No way of knowing. 
RIKER: Set them on stun.

[Soong's lab]

LAFORGE: Down here. 
RIKER: Worf. 
(La Forge and Riker help Soong, who is just recovering consciousness) 
RIKER: It's all right. Take it easy. 
LAFORGE: This, this is Doctor Noonian Soong. 
RIKER: That's impossible. Soong's dead. 
LAFORGE: No, I'm telling you. Look at this stuff. It's Soong, all
right. 
(Worf carries in Data from the living room. He is dressed in Lore's
clothes. Riker goes over) 
RIKER: Here. Let me. 
(He switches Data back on so Worf can put him down) 
RIKER: Would you mind telling me what's going on here? 
DATA: He surprised me. 
LAFORGE: Commander. 
DATA: What has happened here? Doctor. Doctor Soong. 
SOONG: So alike. He saw I couldn't tell you apart. There was only one
chip. I tried to tell him, but I couldn't. If I wanted to I couldn't
build another one. 
RIKER: Tried to tell who? Damn it, Data, what's going on? 
DATA: Lore, sir. He was inadvertently summoned here by the same signal
which activated my homing circuitry. It seems that after nearly two
years in interstellar space, he was 
RIKER: Mister Data, there's a very sick little boy onboard the
Enterprise who's not getting any better. We're dead in the water until
you get us out of here. 
SOONG: It's all right. Access your third nested memory file and execute
instruction five one five five. That will clear your memory block. 
DATA: I was unaware of having caused any inconvenience, sir. 
RIKER: We'll discuss it later, Mister Data. Doctor, you're coming with
us, too. You need to get to Sickbay. 
SOONG: Young man, I've lived here a long time. I have no plans to die
anywhere else. 
DATA: But sir, our medical facility may be able to 
SOONG: Go, go, go, go Data. Go. Go with your friends. 
DATA: May I say goodbye to Doctor Soong, sir? Alone, sir? 
(Riker and La Forge leave) 
SOONG: Everybody dies, Data. Well, almost everybody. 
DATA: Do you believe that we are in some ways alike, sir? 
SOONG: Yes, in many ways, I'd like to believe. 
DATA: Then it is alright for you to die, because I will remain alive.
You know that I cannot grieve for you, sir. 
SOONG: You will, in your own way. Goodbye. Goodbye, Data. 
DATA: Goodbye, Father.

Captain's log, Stardate 44091.1. We have been at
Starbase four one six for three days. Young Willie Potts is responding
well to treatment and has been returned to the Enterprise.

