RIKER O'BRIEN [OC] LAFORGE WORF PICARD WESLEY COMPUTER O'BRIEN DATA
seven accepted come metre looking chief main mister starbase

[Engineering]

LAFORGE: No matter what we try, the computer will
only accept commands from the Bridge, sir. 
WORF: He has blocked every subspace channel, sir. We cannot even call
for help. 
PICARD: Have you tried tracing back navigation inputs? 
WESLEY: We don't even know what star system we're in, sir. 
RIKER: The only way we knew we'd come out of warp was by looking out a
window. 
O'BRIEN [OC]: O'Brien to Captain Picard. 
PICARD: Go ahead, Chief. 
O'BRIEN [OC]: Captain, he's up to something. 
PICARD: What now?

[Transporter room]

O'BRIEN: He discovered the site to site lockout. I
wouldn't be surprised if he 
[Engineering]

O'BRIEN: Tried to make it to a transporter room
now. 
PICARD: Mister Worf, I want security teams along the main passageways
and in every transporter
room. And see if the computer would be good enough to give you the
precise stun setting to disable Mister Data. 
WORF: Yes, sir. 
PICARD: Computer, estimate the time from this location to Starbase four
one six at warp nine. 
COMPUTER: Inquiries regarding command functions are no longer accepted
from your present location.

[Bridge]

DATA: (imitating Picard) Computer, establish a
security code for access to all functions previously transferred to
Bridge. 
COMPUTER: Enter code. 
DATA: One seven three four six seven three two one four seven six
Charlie three two seven eight nine seven seven seven six four three
Tango seven three two Victor seven three one one seven eight eight
eight seven three two four seven six seven eight nine seven six four
three seven six. Lock. 
COMPUTER: Security code intact for all specified inquiries and orders. 
DATA: Computer, initiate cascade sequence, accepting instructions from
Commander Data en route. (enters turbolift) Now.

[Engineering]

LAFORGE: He's out! Security team approaching
location.

[Corridor]

(The security team that see Data exit the turbolift
get stopped by a forcefield, then the man who follows him)
DATA: Intersection eight J, aft port. Establish. 
(Right on the noses of the team who arrive at the junction just after
him) 
WORF: I order you to stop. 
DATA: Computer, begin scan phase. 
(Worf's phaser shot is blocked. The forcefield moves with Data, pushing
Worf and his team backwards) 
WORF: No, no, that's too close.

[Transporter room]

RIKER: This has gone far enough, Data. 
DATA: Computer, three metre cross seal. 
((Riker O'Brien and a guard are trapped behind a forcefield. Riker
pulls his phaser) 
O'BRIEN: I wouldn't advise that, sir. The phase coils don't take well
to ricochets. 
RIKER: What's he doing? 
O'BRIEN: He's reactivating the site to site transport interlocks. 
RIKER: Does that mean he'll be able to 
(Data is beamed away) 
