PICARD ROBERT

[Chez Picard]

(Picard is making inroads into a bottle of the
family produce when Robert comes in with flowers for the house) 
ROBERT: Careful. You're not used to drinking the real thing. This
synthehol never leaves you out of control, is that so? 
PICARD: That's so. 
ROBERT: This will. (pours himself the last dregs) Now there is
something I'd like to see. 
PICARD: What's that? 
ROBERT: The gallant Captain out of control. Mind if I ask you a
question? What the devil happened to you up there? 
PICARD: Is this brotherly concern? 
ROBERT: No. Curiosity. What did they do to you? 
PICARD: You know what happened. 
ROBERT: Not precisely. I gather you were hurt. Humiliated. I always
thought you needed a little humiliation. Or was it humility? Either
would do. (Jean-Luc storms out of the house) 
[Garden]

ROBERT: Why do you walk away? That isn't your
style. 
PICARD: I'm tired of fighting with you, Robert. 
ROBERT: Tired? 
PICARD: That's right. 
ROBERT: Yes. Tired of the Enterprise too? The great Captain Picard of
Starfleet falls to Earth, ready to plunge into the water with Louis.
That isn't the brother that I remember. Still, I suppose it must have
seemed like the ideal situation, hmm? Local boy makes good. Returns
home after twenty years to a hero's welcome. 
PICARD: I'm not a hero. 
ROBERT: Of course you are. Admit it. You'd never settle for less than
that and you never will. 
PICARD: That's not true. 
ROBERT: Cancel the parade? In your favour? 
PICARD: No! I never sought that rubbish. 
ROBERT: Never sought? Never sought president of the school,
valedictorian, athletic hero with your arms raised in victory? 
PICARD: Valedictorian? Arms raised in victory? Were you so jealous? 
ROBERT: Yes, damn it. I was always so jealous, I had a right to be. 
PICARD: Right? 
ROBERT: I was always your brother, watching you receive the cheers,
watching you break every rule our father made and get away with it. 
PICARD: Why didn't you break a few rules? 
ROBERT: Because I was the elder brother, the responsible one. It was my
job to look after you. 
PICARD: Look after me? You? You were a bully. 
ROBERT: Sometimes. Maybe. Sometimes I even enjoyed bullying you. 
PICARD: All right. Try it now. 
ROBERT: Did you come back, Jean-Luc? Did you come back because you
wanted me to look after you again? 
PICARD: Damn you! 
(And he punches his brother, sending him flying over some barrels into
the vineyard proper. There they fight in the muddy irrigation ditches,
through the vines until they finally fall back laughing)
PICARD: You were asking for it, you know. 
ROBERT: Yes, but you needed it. You have been terribly hard on
yourself. 
PICARD: You don't know, Robert. You don't know. They took everything I
was. They used me to kill and to destroy, and I couldn't stop them. I
should have been able to stop them! I tried. I tried so hard, but I
wasn't strong enough. I wasn't good enough. I should have been able to
stop them. I should! I should! 
ROBERT: So, my brother is a human being after all. This is going to be
with you a long time, Jean-Luc. A long time. You have to learn to live
with it. You have a simple choice now. Live with it below the sea with
Louis, or above the clouds with the Enterprise. 
PICARD: You know, I think you were right after all. I think I did come
back so that you could help me. 
ROBERT: You know what? I still don't like you, Jean-Luc.

