ALL RENE LAFORGE WORF HELENA PICARD ROBERT SERGEY CREWWOMAN MARIE
protect evening okay completed france want theta ocean principal

[Engineering]

CREWWOMAN: Check completed, sir. 
SERGEY: So we walked into the school and we don't know what to expect.
Is Worf hurt? Is he in some kind of trouble? The door opens and there
is our little seven year old sitting on a chair and glaring across the
room at five teenage boys, all of them with bloody noses. 
HELENA: And then the principal looked up and said, please tell me he's
an only child. 
WORF: We have taken enough of the Commander's time. 
LAFORGE: No, no, no, we're way ahead of schedule here. 
SERGEY: I just wanted to tell him the story about 
HELENA: Enough stories, Sergey. 
SERGEY: Okay. Okay. Enough stories. Well, how about giving us a look at
the new engine core. I used to be a warp field specialist on the old
Excelsior class. 
LAFORGE: I'd be delighted. Mrs. Rozhenko? 
HELENA: No, no, no, no, no. You two go ahead. Your father will be
hours. Worf, why don't you show me the arboretum? 
WORF: Commander La Forge, call me when you, when my father wishes to
leave. 
SERGEY: I can find my own way. Turbolift four is just over there,
right? I have all the specs and designs at home. 
(Worf and Helena leave) 
LAFORGE: The theta-matrix compositer makes the recrystallisation
process ten times more efficient than the old Excelsior class ships. 
SERGEY: Amazing. Commander, if you have a couple of minutes, there is
something else I want to ask you. 
LAFORGE: Sure, Chief. 
SERGEY: It's about my son.

[Chez Picard]

(a proper family evening meal is being served
around a table in the paneled part of the main room) 
MARIE: Your friend Louis wants you to contact him as soon as you're
settled. 
PICARD: Is he still trying to raise the ocean floor? 
MARIE: Oh yes, he's very excited about it. He's been made a supervisor
now, as his wife is constantly reminding anyone who'll listen. 
ROBERT: I see no good reason why the Earth should have another
subcontinent. 
PICARD: It's really quite exciting, actually, if you understand the
potential of exploring a new world on our own planet. 
ROBERT: Well, I'm afraid that I do not understand this potential. 
MARIE: The Mayor wants to give you a parade. 
PICARD: A parade? 
MARIE: Give you the keys to the city. 
PICARD: No. No, no, no, no. 
ROBERT: He just needs a little arm twisting, dear, coaxing. 
PICARD: No. he does not. I'm here to rest and spend some time with my
family. 
MARIE: Well, I've already warned the Mayor not to make any plans
without talking to us. 
ALL: Salut. 
(They all taste their red wine) 
PICARD: Is this the forty six? 
ROBERT: Forty seven. You've been drinking too much of that artificial
stuff. What do you call it? Synthehol? It's spoiled you. Ruined your
palate. 
PICARD: On the contrary. I think that synthehol heightens one's
appreciation for the genuine article. 
ROBERT: Delicious, Marie. 
MARIE: Thank you. 
PICARD: Leave it to Robert to find the best cook in France, then marry
her. 
ROBERT: Yes, but sadly cooking is becoming a lost art. That's your
wretched technology again. 
MARIE: Robert and I have had more than a few discussions about getting
a replicator in the house. 
PICARD: I remember the same discussions between mother and father. 
ROBERT: Father understood better than anybody else the danger of losing
those values which we hold most precious. 
PICARD: I don't see that you have to lose anything just by adding a
convenience. 
ROBERT: You wouldn't, but in my view, life is already too convenient. 
MARIE: This is a very old argument. 
RENE: I wrote a report on starships for school. 
MARIE: And he won a ribbon for it. 
RENE: The teacher said it was one of the best he'd ever heard. 
PICARD: Good for you, Uncle. You know what? I once wrote a report about
starships when I was about your age. 
RENE: Did you win a ribbon too? 
PICARD: I don't recall. 
ROBERT: And I don't find your modesty very unconvincing, brother. Of
course you won the ribbon. You always did. 
RENE: Do you still have it? Your report. 
PICARD: No, I don't think so. 
RENE: Well, I still have mine. 
MARIE: Why don't you go and get it, and then you can read it to your
uncle. 
(Rene leaves the table) 
ROBERT: It's hard enough to protect him, protect him from all that's
out there without you encouraging him. 
PICARD: I am not encouraging him. If you weren't so narrow minded, if
you allowed him to see the world as it really is 
ROBERT: You raise your own sons as you would wish, and allow me to do
the same with mine. 
