ALL RENE PICARD ROBERT LOUIS MARIE
protect atlantis traditions marry meal looking convenience losing excited

[Chez Picard]

(a proper family evening meal is being served
around a table in the paneled part of the main room) 
MARIE: Your friend Louis wants you to contact him as soon as you're
settled. 
PICARD: Is he still trying to raise the ocean floor? 
MARIE: Oh yes, he's very excited about it. He's been made a supervisor
now, as his wife is constantly reminding anyone who'll listen. 
ROBERT: I see no good reason why the Earth should have another
subcontinent. 
PICARD: It's really quite exciting, actually, if you understand the
potential of exploring a new world on our own planet. 
ROBERT: Well, I'm afraid that I do not understand this potential. 
MARIE: The Mayor wants to give you a parade. 
PICARD: A parade? 
MARIE: Give you the keys to the city. 
PICARD: No. No, no, no, no. 
ROBERT: He just needs a little arm twisting, dear, coaxing. 
PICARD: No. he does not. I'm here to rest and spend some time with my
family. 
MARIE: Well, I've already warned the Mayor not to make any plans
without talking to us. 
ALL: Salut. 
(They all taste their red wine) 
PICARD: Is this the forty six? 
ROBERT: Forty seven. You've been drinking too much of that artificial
stuff. What do you call it? Synthehol? It's spoiled you. Ruined your
palate. 
PICARD: On the contrary. I think that synthehol heightens one's
appreciation for the genuine article. 
ROBERT: Delicious, Marie. 
MARIE: Thank you. 
PICARD: Leave it to Robert to find the best cook in France, then marry
her. 
ROBERT: Yes, but sadly cooking is becoming a lost art. That's your
wretched technology again. 
MARIE: Robert and I have had more than a few discussions about getting
a replicator in the house. 
PICARD: I remember the same discussions between mother and father. 
ROBERT: Father understood better than anybody else the danger of losing
those values which we hold most precious. 
PICARD: I don't see that you have to lose anything just by adding a
convenience. 
ROBERT: You wouldn't, but in my view, life is already too convenient. 
MARIE: This is a very old argument. 
RENE: I wrote a report on starships for school. 
MARIE: And he won a ribbon for it. 
RENE: The teacher said it was one of the best he'd ever heard. 
PICARD: Good for you, Uncle. You know what? I once wrote a report about
starships when I was about your age. 
RENE: Did you win a ribbon too? 
PICARD: I don't recall. 
ROBERT: And I don't find your modesty very unconvincing, brother. Of
course you won the ribbon. You always did. 
RENE: Do you still have it? Your report. 
PICARD: No, I don't think so. 
RENE: Well, I still have mine. 
MARIE: Why don't you go and get it, and then you can read it to your
uncle. 
(Rene leaves the table) 
ROBERT: It's hard enough to protect him, protect him from all that's
out there without you encouraging him. 
PICARD: I am not encouraging him. If you weren't so narrow minded, if
you allowed him to see the world as it really is 
ROBERT: You raise your own sons as you would wish, and allow me to do
the same with mine. 
[Vineyard]

LOUIS: One man's idea of paradise. 
PICARD: No, my dear Louis, two men. Robert's and my father's. 
LOUIS: Never did I know anyone less interested in grapes than you,
Jean-Luc. 
PICARD: No, not true. I was interested. And I was proud that my family
were helping to preserve the traditions. I just didn't feel bound by
those traditions. 
LOUIS: You always reached for the future and your brother for the past.

PICARD: There should be room for both in this life. And what about you,
you old rascal. You've taken quite a shift into the future yourself. 
LOUIS: Well, hydroponics turned out to be so dull. 
PICARD: You should have listened to me at the beginning. 
LOUIS: If I had listened to you, I never would have taken that cycling
trip with the Bloom sisters. 
PICARD: And broken your leg. 
LOUIS: And got married twice. 
PICARD: I hear you've been promoted to supervisor of the Atlantis
project. 
LOUIS: I'm one of two hundred supervisors, although my wife would have
you believe I run the entire project. 
PICARD: Well. it's certainly very exciting work. I've kept up on it in
the journals. 
LOUIS: Really? 
PICARD: It's only. There's just one thing I don't understand. You were
such a rotten swimmer, Louis. Thinking of you working on the ocean
floor. 
LOUIS: I suppose we all find ways to confront our greatest fears. 
PICARD: Seriously, how do you plan to accelerate the buildup on the
underside of the mantle without increasing the stress on the tectonic
plates? 
LOUIS: You really have kept up, haven't you? The truth is we don't
know, yet. 
PICARD: On the Enterprise, we used harmonic resonators to relieve the
tectonic pressures on Drema Four. Obviously, it's not the same problem
but 
LOUIS: You know, it's such a shame. The government is looking for
someone to take over the project. A real leader who'll go in there and
get things moving. And they are looking for you, Jean-Luc. I know, I
know, you'd never leave Starfleet. 
PICARD: No, I'd never leave Starfleet. 
LOUIS: That's what I thought, but if nothing else, why don't I send
over some of the internal studies of the tectonic problem, since you're
interested? We could use any thoughts you might have. 
PICARD: All right.

