RIKER WORF SERGEY PICARD HELENA GUINAN LOUIS

[Vineyard]

LOUIS: One man's idea of paradise. 
PICARD: No, my dear Louis, two men. Robert's and my father's. 
LOUIS: Never did I know anyone less interested in grapes than you,
Jean-Luc. 
PICARD: No, not true. I was interested. And I was proud that my family
were helping to preserve the traditions. I just didn't feel bound by
those traditions. 
LOUIS: You always reached for the future and your brother for the past.

PICARD: There should be room for both in this life. And what about you,
you old rascal. You've taken quite a shift into the future yourself. 
LOUIS: Well, hydroponics turned out to be so dull. 
PICARD: You should have listened to me at the beginning. 
LOUIS: If I had listened to you, I never would have taken that cycling
trip with the Bloom sisters. 
PICARD: And broken your leg. 
LOUIS: And got married twice. 
PICARD: I hear you've been promoted to supervisor of the Atlantis
project. 
LOUIS: I'm one of two hundred supervisors, although my wife would have
you believe I run the entire project. 
PICARD: Well. it's certainly very exciting work. I've kept up on it in
the journals. 
LOUIS: Really? 
PICARD: It's only. There's just one thing I don't understand. You were
such a rotten swimmer, Louis. Thinking of you working on the ocean
floor. 
LOUIS: I suppose we all find ways to confront our greatest fears. 
PICARD: Seriously, how do you plan to accelerate the buildup on the
underside of the mantle without increasing the stress on the tectonic
plates? 
LOUIS: You really have kept up, haven't you? The truth is we don't
know, yet. 
PICARD: On the Enterprise, we used harmonic resonators to relieve the
tectonic pressures on Drema Four. Obviously, it's not the same problem
but 
LOUIS: You know, it's such a shame. The government is looking for
someone to take over the project. A real leader who'll go in there and
get things moving. And they are looking for you, Jean-Luc. I know, I
know, you'd never leave Starfleet. 
PICARD: No, I'd never leave Starfleet. 
LOUIS: That's what I thought, but if nothing else, why don't I send
over some of the internal studies of the tectonic problem, since you're
interested? We could use any thoughts you might have. 
PICARD: All right.

[Ten Forward]

(Sitting at the bar) 
SERGEY: It's a great crew, son, and they think the world of you. 
HELENA: They really do. 
WORF: Mother, Father, I wish you would be a little more reserved while
you are on board. 
HELENA: I know. We go too far, sometimes. 
SERGEY: We're just excited to be here. 
RIKER [OC]: Riker to Lieutenant Worf. 
WORF: Worf here. 
RIKER [OC]: I need to talk to you about the phaser test results. 
WORF: On my way, Commander. Have Guinan call me if you need anything. 
(Worf leaves, and Sergey and Helena get up, agitated and walk towards
the windows) 
SERGEY: Maybe we should just leave it alone. 
HELENA: I can't just leave it alone. I'm his mother. 
GUINAN: You know, sooner or later, everyone comes in here. They stand
by those windows and they look out and the stare. They're looking for
that little star they call home. It doesn't matter how far away it is,
everybody looks anyway. I'm Guinan. Pleased to meet you. You're Worf's
parents? 
SERGEY: Sergey and Helena Rozhenko 
GUINAN: Welcome. Sit, please. There's something I would like to ask
you. 
HELENA: Please. 
GUINAN: How come you never gave him prune juice? 
HELENA: I beg your pardon? 
GUINAN: He said he'd never had it till he came here. Mow he can't get
enough of it. 
HELENA: Worf? 
SERGEY: He never wanted any human food while he was growing up.
Everything had to be Klingon. 
HELENA: I learned to cook rokeg blood pie. 
SERGEY: However, we never quite learned how to eat it. 
HELENA: It was a difficult adolescence. 
GUINAN: But you got through it. 
SERGEY: We didn't do anything special. 
GUINAN: Didn't you? Just look at him. I think he's pretty special. 
HELENA: We knew it wouldn't be easy for him, growing up without other
Klingons to go to for guidance. 
SERGEY: We had to let him discover and explore his heritage by himself,
let him find his own path. 
GUINAN: So many parents could learn so much from the two of you. 
HELENA: Well, I'm afraid that Worf feels that we do not understand him.

GUINAN: Well, part of him may feel that way, but there's another part
that I've seen. A part that comes in and drinks prune juice. A part
that looks out the window towards home. He's not looking toward the
Klingon Empire. He's looking toward you.

