PICARD ROBERT MARIE
fait tried watching stop able favour bon think dum

[Garden]

ROBERT: Why do you walk away? That isn't your
style. 
PICARD: I'm tired of fighting with you, Robert. 
ROBERT: Tired? 
PICARD: That's right. 
ROBERT: Yes. Tired of the Enterprise too? The great Captain Picard of
Starfleet falls to Earth, ready to plunge into the water with Louis.
That isn't the brother that I remember. Still, I suppose it must have
seemed like the ideal situation, hmm? Local boy makes good. Returns
home after twenty years to a hero's welcome. 
PICARD: I'm not a hero. 
ROBERT: Of course you are. Admit it. You'd never settle for less than
that and you never will. 
PICARD: That's not true. 
ROBERT: Cancel the parade? In your favour? 
PICARD: No! I never sought that rubbish. 
ROBERT: Never sought? Never sought president of the school,
valedictorian, athletic hero with your arms raised in victory? 
PICARD: Valedictorian? Arms raised in victory? Were you so jealous? 
ROBERT: Yes, damn it. I was always so jealous, I had a right to be. 
PICARD: Right? 
ROBERT: I was always your brother, watching you receive the cheers,
watching you break every rule our father made and get away with it. 
PICARD: Why didn't you break a few rules? 
ROBERT: Because I was the elder brother, the responsible one. It was my
job to look after you. 
PICARD: Look after me? You? You were a bully. 
ROBERT: Sometimes. Maybe. Sometimes I even enjoyed bullying you. 
PICARD: All right. Try it now. 
ROBERT: Did you come back, Jean-Luc? Did you come back because you
wanted me to look after you again? 
PICARD: Damn you! 
(And he punches his brother, sending him flying over some barrels into
the vineyard proper. There they fight in the muddy irrigation ditches,
through the vines until they finally fall back laughing)
PICARD: You were asking for it, you know. 
ROBERT: Yes, but you needed it. You have been terribly hard on
yourself. 
PICARD: You don't know, Robert. You don't know. They took everything I
was. They used me to kill and to destroy, and I couldn't stop them. I
should have been able to stop them! I tried. I tried so hard, but I
wasn't strong enough. I wasn't good enough. I should have been able to
stop them. I should! I should! 
ROBERT: So, my brother is a human being after all. This is going to be
with you a long time, Jean-Luc. A long time. You have to learn to live
with it. You have a simple choice now. Live with it below the sea with
Louis, or above the clouds with the Enterprise. 
PICARD: You know, I think you were right after all. I think I did come
back so that you could help me. 
ROBERT: You know what? I still don't like you, Jean-Luc.

[Chez Picard]

(There's mud, and muddy boots, on the carpet, and
drunken voices singing 'Aupres de ma blonde, qu'il fait bon, fait bon,
fait bon' dum, dum, dum. Marie enters from outside) 
MARIE: What in the world? What happened here? 
ROBERT: Ah 
PICARD: It's entirely my fault, Marie. 
ROBERT: Yes, I fell down, then he fell and then 
PICARD: We both fell down. 
ROBERT: We both fell down. 
PICARD: Together. 
ROBERT: We both fell down together. 
MARIE: Have you two been fighting? 
ROBERT: Fighting? No, certainly not. 
MARIE: Shame on you both. What would your father say if he saw you like
this? 
PICARD: He'd probably send us both to bed without our supper. 
MARIE: Well, perhaps it's just as well you got it out of your systems. 
PICARD: Perhaps it was, Marie. Perhaps it was. I'll contact Louis and
cancel the meeting with the Board of Governors. It's time that I was
going. 
MARIE: Already, Jean-Luc? 
PICARD: The ship will be ready to leave orbit soon, and I belong on
board. If I should ever doubt that again, I know where to come. 
