LAFORGE PICARD TRAVELLER WESLEY COMPUTER GEORDI CRUSHER

[Engineering]

CRUSHER: Wesley? 
[Bridge]

(There's only Picard on the Bridge. All the
stations are empty. Beverly even checks the Observation lounge - door
labeled Conference - and looks stunned) 
CRUSHER: They're all gone? Riker, Troi, Data? Wait a minute, let me
guess. You never heard of any of them. 
PICARD: You know, Doctor, I have been more than fair. I have done
everything I can to substantiate
your, your perceptions of a 
CRUSHER: Will Riker! Your First Officer. He's very good at playing
poker, loves to cook, he listens to jazz music, plays the trombone. 
PICARD: I cannot find any evidence of a Will Riker. 
CRUSHER: Commander Data, the android who sits at Ops, dreams of being
human, never gets the punch line of a joke. 
PICARD: Doctor, we'll be arriving at Starbase one three three in a few
hours. 
CRUSHER: Deanna Troi, you ship's counsellor, half Betazoid, loves
chocolate. The arrival of her mother makes you shudder. O'Brien,
Geordi, Worf, Wesley, my son. They all have been the living, breathing
heart of this crew for over three years. They
deserve more than to be shrugged off, brushed aside, just pinched out
of existence like that. They all do. They deserve so much more. 
PICARD: Beverly, perhaps it would be best if you were to confine
yourself to Sickbay until we arrive. 
CRUSHER: It's all perfectly logical to you, isn't it? The two of us
roaming about the galaxy in the flagship of the Federation. No crew at
all. 
PICARD: We've never needed a crew before. 
CRUSHER: I don't suppose you remember an alien from Tau Alpha C who was
on board once? He called himself a Traveller. Jean-Luc, I don't know
how, but you and I have got to find this Traveller, or another from his
race. If anyone can help us 
PICARD: I give you my word. When we arrive at the Starbase, I will make
every effort to find him. 
CRUSHER: It's not a delusion. It is not a dream. There is a physical,
measurable phenomenon at work here. Perhaps you could help me to
identify it. 
PICARD: How? 
CRUSHER: I'd like to use the ship's computer to monitor your life
functions. 
PICARD: Until I disappear. 
CRUSHER: It will happen. 
PICARD: All right. Computer, continuous scan, Captain Jean-Luc Picard,
vital signs. Audible readout. Begin now. 
COMPUTER: Body temperature thirty seven point two degrees, (continues
in background) 
CRUSHER: I promise you I will continue to do whatever I can to find out
what's happening, and to bring you all back. I'm sorry I lost my
temper. You do remember that? 
PICARD: Vividly. But if I have forgotten my closest friends and
comrades, as you say, I deserved every word. 
CRUSHER: For quite some time I've been meaning to say something to you.
I might not have another chance. (she looks away for a moment) Jean
Luc, you and I 
(The computer has gone silent. He is not there) 
CRUSHER: I won't forget. I won't forget any of you. 
(A vortex forms by the viewscreen and she is dragged towards it. She
grabs hold of Data's chair as the force of the vacuum has her hanging
parallel to the floor for a few moments until the intensity drops) 
GEORDI [OC]: Wesley, have you got it? What's happening? 
WESLEY [OC]: I'm losing it! 
[Engineering]

WESLEY: The link isn't holding, Commander.
LAFORGE: I'll go to the secondary equations. 
WESLEY: No. Look. (the vortex dissipates) I've lost it. 
LAFORGE: Damn. I'm sorry, Wesley. 
WESLEY: It's over. There's no way we'll get her back now. 
TRAVELLER: (phasing in) It's not over, Wesley. There's still a way.

Captain's log, stardate 44162.5. Two attempts to
retrieve Doctor Crusher have failed. And now, the Traveller, a
mysterious visitor from our past, has reappeared.

