TROI LAFORGE PICARD RIKER WESLEY CRUSHER DATA

[Observation lounge]

LAFORGE: I've had a team in Sickbay for two hours.
We've run the mass spectrometer on all particulates. We've scanned the
EM spectrum in case there was a wave guide somehow leaking radiation.
We've even crawled in the life support ductwork. Captain, I don't know
what this vortex was that Doctor Crusher saw. 
CRUSHER: I didn't just see it. I felt it. I barely escaped from it. 
LAFORGE: Well, there's nothing there now. And no sign there ever was. 
PICARD: Is there any possible connection with Mister Crusher's
experiment? Could this warp bubble be floating around the ship perhaps?

LAFORGE: No, sir. That bubble was definitely contained in Engineering.
There's no way it could possibly have affected anything up on deck
twelve. 
(Data enters) 
DATA: Sir, I have completed level one computer diagnostics. There are
no malfunctions. 
RIKER: Any other ships respond to our queries, Data? 
DATA: The Wellington is the only Federation vessel in this sector. It
reports normal operations. A Ferengi ship within communications range
also reports nothing unusual. 
CRUSHER: Are all members of the crew accounted for? 
DATA: Yes, Doctor. 
CRUSHER: How many are there? 
DATA: There are one hundred and fourteen people on the Enterprise. 
CRUSHER: What? 
DATA: That is the exact number there should be. 
CRUSHER: There are now over nine hundred missing. Deck after deck of
this ship is deserted now. How do you account for all the empty rooms?
If there are supposed to be only a hundred and fourteen people on
board, why all the extra space? 
DATA: Transportation of colonists, diplomatic missions, emergency
evacuations. 
PICARD: Thank you, Mister Data. Have security confine all nonessential
personnel to their quarters. Computer, go to Red Alert. 
(Riker leaves) 
CRUSHER: I'd like Lieutenant Worf to programme onboard sensors to
monitor all personnel. If we can catch the exact moment someone
disappears 
PICARD: I'm sorry, whom did you say? 
CRUSHER: Worf. Chief of Security. The big guy who never smiles? The
Klingon!

[Corridor]

CRUSHER: Deanna. I need you to tell me if I've gone
completely mad. 
TROI: If you can ask the question, I'd say no. 
CRUSHER: Don't evade the question. 
TROI: Then ask me one I can answer. 
CRUSHER: Deanna, I've delivered babies that no longer exist. No one
else remembers them. Yet I can close my eyes, and see their faces as
clearly as I see yours now. What if it's not some huge conspiracy? What
if it is just me? 
TROI: What if it is just you? 
CRUSHER: Then I've delayed a mission, frightened a lot of people
including myself. 
TROI: So what? You've acted in the best interest of your ship and crew.
What more could you ask of yourself? If it turns out to be a mistake,
then we'll be a little late arriving at Durenia Four. That's all. 
CRUSHER: It's not a mistake. I wish it were. 
TROI: When we reach Starbase, I'll order a complete workup, both
physical and psychological. 
CRUSHER: If we reach Starbase. Wesley. Where's Wesley?

[Engineering]

CRUSHER: Wesley? 
WESLEY: Mom? Are you all right? 
CRUSHER: No. We may have very little time left. You don't believe me. 
WESLEY: Look, Mom, I don't know. 
CRUSHER: I don't have time to convince you. Hundreds of people are
missing and your experiment is the only possible explanation we have
that we can work on right now. 
WESLEY: Well, there it is. I don't know what else to do with it. 
CRUSHER: Then find someone who does, someone who knows something about
warp bubbles. 
WESLEY: I've already talked to Kosinski on subspace, and he can't
explain it either. And this is based on his equations. There is someone
who may be able to help, but I can't reach him. 
CRUSHER: Who? 
WESLEY: He was Kosinski's assistant. He was an alien from Tau Alpha C.
He said he was some kind of Traveller. Somehow he combined warp
technology and the energy from his own thoughts. 
CRUSHER: Yes, I remember. Wesley, do you think it's possible that
you've accidentally recreated something that he did? Something that
could alter reality? 
WESLEY: I don't see how. He's the only one who could explain it to us.
I sent a message to Tau Alpha C, but it's so far away, it could take
days to get there. 
CRUSHER: Maybe the Captain can help us. We've got to find him. Come on.

WESLEY: I don't even know if he's still alive. He was very sick. 
CRUSHER: Well, we can't stand around here doing nothing. 
(They walk out of Engineering) 
