WESLEY TROI CRUSHER
wish able evade reality babies need bubbles technology message

[Corridor]

CRUSHER: Deanna. I need you to tell me if I've gone
completely mad. 
TROI: If you can ask the question, I'd say no. 
CRUSHER: Don't evade the question. 
TROI: Then ask me one I can answer. 
CRUSHER: Deanna, I've delivered babies that no longer exist. No one
else remembers them. Yet I can close my eyes, and see their faces as
clearly as I see yours now. What if it's not some huge conspiracy? What
if it is just me? 
TROI: What if it is just you? 
CRUSHER: Then I've delayed a mission, frightened a lot of people
including myself. 
TROI: So what? You've acted in the best interest of your ship and crew.
What more could you ask of yourself? If it turns out to be a mistake,
then we'll be a little late arriving at Durenia Four. That's all. 
CRUSHER: It's not a mistake. I wish it were. 
TROI: When we reach Starbase, I'll order a complete workup, both
physical and psychological. 
CRUSHER: If we reach Starbase. Wesley. Where's Wesley?

[Engineering]

CRUSHER: Wesley? 
WESLEY: Mom? Are you all right? 
CRUSHER: No. We may have very little time left. You don't believe me. 
WESLEY: Look, Mom, I don't know. 
CRUSHER: I don't have time to convince you. Hundreds of people are
missing and your experiment is the only possible explanation we have
that we can work on right now. 
WESLEY: Well, there it is. I don't know what else to do with it. 
CRUSHER: Then find someone who does, someone who knows something about
warp bubbles. 
WESLEY: I've already talked to Kosinski on subspace, and he can't
explain it either. And this is based on his equations. There is someone
who may be able to help, but I can't reach him. 
CRUSHER: Who? 
WESLEY: He was Kosinski's assistant. He was an alien from Tau Alpha C.
He said he was some kind of Traveller. Somehow he combined warp
technology and the energy from his own thoughts. 
CRUSHER: Yes, I remember. Wesley, do you think it's possible that
you've accidentally recreated something that he did? Something that
could alter reality? 
WESLEY: I don't see how. He's the only one who could explain it to us.
I sent a message to Tau Alpha C, but it's so far away, it could take
days to get there. 
CRUSHER: Maybe the Captain can help us. We've got to find him. Come on.

WESLEY: I don't even know if he's still alive. He was very sick. 
CRUSHER: Well, we can't stand around here doing nothing. 
(They walk out of Engineering) 
[Corridor]

CRUSHER: It's a chance. We have to try to... 
(She looks around, She's alone) 
CRUSHER: Wesley. 
