RIKER LAFORGE PICARD RIKER [OC] CRUSHER DATA
room team reports starship queries scope nonessential wind ve

[Ready room]

PICARD: Would you care for something? So, Beverly.
Tea, Earl Grey, hot. You're saying this ship has lost nearly eight
hundred of its personnel? 
CRUSHER: I know how it sounds. 
PICARD: None of the scans show any anomalies. No signs of an intruder.
Wesley's experiment clearly did not have the scope to affect an entire
starship. 
CRUSHER: Captain, the Enterprise is in serious danger. You must believe
me. 
PICARD: I have no choice but to believe you. The safety of my entire
crew is at stake, but I must be sure. 
CRUSHER: That I haven't lost my mind? I just examined myself. And being
the only doctor on board, I had to do it myself. There were no signs of
dysfunction. Yes, there was an increased elevation of adrenalin, but I
think is understandable. 
PICARD: Did you find anything that might suggest why you're apparently
the only one among us unaffected by this, this phenomenon? 
CRUSHER: No. I'll talk to Troi. 
PICARD: It wouldn't do any harm. 
CRUSHER: Captain, please. Return this ship to Starbase one three three
for a full diagnostic. I realise you have my word only to convince you.

PICARD: Mister Riker? 
RIKER [OC]: Captain? 
PICARD: Set a course for a return to Starbase one three three
immediately. 
RIKER [OC]: Aye, sir. 
PICARD: Your word has always been good enough for me.

[Sickbay]

(There's a flashing light, then a strong wind
starts sucking Beverly towards a funnel. She holds onto a doorway arch
as bits of paper go flying past. Then it all stops)

[Observation lounge]

LAFORGE: I've had a team in Sickbay for two hours.
We've run the mass spectrometer on all particulates. We've scanned the
EM spectrum in case there was a wave guide somehow leaking radiation.
We've even crawled in the life support ductwork. Captain, I don't know
what this vortex was that Doctor Crusher saw. 
CRUSHER: I didn't just see it. I felt it. I barely escaped from it. 
LAFORGE: Well, there's nothing there now. And no sign there ever was. 
PICARD: Is there any possible connection with Mister Crusher's
experiment? Could this warp bubble be floating around the ship perhaps?

LAFORGE: No, sir. That bubble was definitely contained in Engineering.
There's no way it could possibly have affected anything up on deck
twelve. 
(Data enters) 
DATA: Sir, I have completed level one computer diagnostics. There are
no malfunctions. 
RIKER: Any other ships respond to our queries, Data? 
DATA: The Wellington is the only Federation vessel in this sector. It
reports normal operations. A Ferengi ship within communications range
also reports nothing unusual. 
CRUSHER: Are all members of the crew accounted for? 
DATA: Yes, Doctor. 
CRUSHER: How many are there? 
DATA: There are one hundred and fourteen people on the Enterprise. 
CRUSHER: What? 
DATA: That is the exact number there should be. 
CRUSHER: There are now over nine hundred missing. Deck after deck of
this ship is deserted now. How do you account for all the empty rooms?
If there are supposed to be only a hundred and fourteen people on
board, why all the extra space? 
DATA: Transportation of colonists, diplomatic missions, emergency
evacuations. 
PICARD: Thank you, Mister Data. Have security confine all nonessential
personnel to their quarters. Computer, go to Red Alert. 
(Riker leaves) 
CRUSHER: I'd like Lieutenant Worf to programme onboard sensors to
monitor all personnel. If we can catch the exact moment someone
disappears 
PICARD: I'm sorry, whom did you say? 
CRUSHER: Worf. Chief of Security. The big guy who never smiles? The
Klingon!

