RIKER ISHARA LAFORGE WORF PICARD O'BRIEN CRUSHER DATA
fractures enters tunnel crossfire metres engineering command phasers care

[Transporter room]

O'BRIEN: Energising. 
(The rest of the away team are already on board) 
[Picard's quarters]

PICARD: Come. 
(Riker enters) 
PICARD: How is she? 
RIKER: A couple of cracked ribs. She'll be all right. 
PICARD: Doctor Crusher just called me with the results of the DNA
comparison. Ishara is Tasha's sister. 
RIKER: After what she did for us down there, that doesn't surprise me
one bit. 
PICARD: You took some unnecessary personal risks, Number One. 
RIKER: We lost Tasha on an away team under my command. The thought of
the same thing happening to her sister 
PICARD: That's an emotional response, Will. We can't afford it. 
RIKER: Understood, Captain. 
PICARD: Commander. Well done.

[Sickbay]

CRUSHER: I've fused the bone tissue along both
fractures. The muscles around the area will be weak for a day or two,
but you shouldn't feel any pain. 
ISHARA: Thank you, Doctor. 
PICARD: Ishara, I wanted to thank you personally for what you did for
us down on the colony. It was more than I expected. 
ISHARA: I don't run away when things get tough, like some people. Like
my sister did. 
PICARD: Let me tell you about your sister. The first time I saw Tasha
Yar, she was making her way through a Carnelian mine field to reach a
wounded colonist. Her ship had responded to their distress call, as had
mine. When it was all over, I requested that she be assigned to the
Enterprise. Her ship's captain owed me a favour. In the months that
followed, she never once failed to put the safety of the crew before
her own, and she died doing the same. I'm sorry you never knew the
woman Tasha became. I think you would have been proud of her. And she
of you.

[Bridge]

(Ishara is in a tight catsuit now, with Data at a
rear science station and looking at her schematic) 
DATA: What is this structure? 
ISHARA: A main fusion source. There's one next to each of the Alliance
headquarters. It powers all of their defensive systems. This chamber is
accessed from the level below. Entry points are evenly spaced along
this wall every twenty five metres. Data, where was Tasha's post? 
DATA: Tactical station. Where Lieutenant Worf is now. 
ISHARA: Did Tasha have many friends here? 
DATA: Yes. She was especially close to Commander Riker and Lieutenant
Worf. And to myself. 
ISHARA: Are you able to have friends? 
DATA: Yes. 
ISHARA: But you don't have feelings, do you? 
DATA: Not as such. However, even among humans, friendship is sometimes
less an emotional response and more a sense of familiarity. 
ISHARA: So you can become used to someone? 
DATA: Exactly. As I experience certain sensory input patterns, my
mental pathways become accustomed to them. The inputs eventually are
anticipated, and even missed when absent. 
ISHARA: Like my sister. 
DATA: Yes, like your sister.

[Engineering]

LAFORGE: They've been moved so far underground it's
been difficult to pinpoint their signatures. But the men are here, next
to one of the Alliance headquarters. That's about two kilometres of
solid granite above their heads. 
RIKER: So much for the transporter. 
LAFORGE: Not necessarily. We could use the ship's phasers to cut a
shaft through the bedrock to this storage tunnel here.
With a clear path through the rock, we'd be able to transport through
the tunnel. That would put us close enough to get to the crewmen. But
I'll need two hours to refit the ship's phasers for drilling. 
RIKER: It's a real maze down there. 
ISHARA: I spent a lot of time in that section before they took it over.
There are blind tunnels and dead ends that don't even show up on this
map. 
WORF: We do not have much choice. 
ISHARA: If it wasn't for my implant setting off all the alarms, I could
guide you to your men. 
DATA: We could remove the implant. 
ISHARA: No, it has a micro explosive inside that detonates on contact
with air. When you join a cadre, you join for life. 
DATA: A small force field containing xenon or another inert gas could
be placed over the incision site. The explosive could possibly be
disarmed at the same time it is removed. 
RIKER: This is something you're going to have to decide for yourself,
Ishara. Think about it while we're waiting for Geordi.

[Ten Forward]

ISHARA: Our parents were killed in some crossfire
just after I was born. Some people took care of us for a few months,
then one day we came home and they were gone. So Tasha took care of me,
and when I was old enough I joined the Coalition. 
DATA: And Tasha did not? 
ISHARA: My sister hated the cadres. She blamed them for our parents
death. For everything. She refused to join, and she left as soon as she
had the chance. I always thought she was weak for doing that, but maybe
I was wrong. Maybe, maybe she made the right choice. To work together
for something besides killing, to be close to someone without having to
protect your back. Very appealing. You're the perfect example. I hardly
even know you, Data, but already I completely trust you. I even
consider you a friend. 
DATA: Thank you. I would like to consider you my friend as well. 
ISHARA: If I had known about this place fifteen years ago, things
might've been different. Maybe it's not too late.

