RIKER ISHARA WORF HAYNE PICARD TROI HAYNE [on viewscreen] CRUSHER DATA ISHARA [on viewscreen]
bottle just team specific human fake battle ship friends

[Coalition headquarters]

(The case is crow-barred open) 
HAYNE: The Alliance is holding your men hostage, Commander Riker, not
us. You can expect a ransom demand. 
RIKER: The Alliance? 
HAYNE: Our good friends. Our good friends are going to be upset when
they realise we took their last crate of Telluridan synth-ale. 
RIKER: Maybe I should take this to the authorities. 
HAYNE: We are the authorities. The Coalition, our cadre, runs this side
of the city. The Alliance controls the other side. Take your choice. 
RIKER: Are you offering to help us? 
HAYNE: In return for some consideration. Phasers are in short supply
down here. A starship isn't going to miss a few. 
WORF: That is no better than a ransom demand. 
HAYNE: No matter what you give the Alliance, they'll eventually kill
your crewmen anyway. With our help, at least there's a chance you'll
get your men back alive. All I'm asking for is help in maintaining our
defence. We are trying to keep the peace. 
RIKER: Everything we've seen would indicate otherwise. 
HAYNE: A prank. The proximity implants prevent either side from doing
any serious damage. They warn us when an enemy is approaching. 
WORF: Then why do you need more phasers? 
HAYNE: The Alliance just discovered a large cache of weapons. I'm just
trying to make things even, to preserve the peace. 
CRUSHER: You keep using the word peace. We've heard a different version
of life on Turkana Four. 
HAYNE: Ancient history. Where did you hear that? 
DATA: A former crewman was born here. 
HAYNE: Where's he now? 
DATA: She was killed in the line of duty. 
HAYNE: That's as good a way to die as any. As I said, ancient history.
This is now, and your men are in trouble. 
RIKER: We'll return to the Enterprise and consider your proposal. 
HAYNE: A gift for your Captain. 
(he hands a bottle of synth-ale to Riker) 
RIKER: Riker to Enterprise. Energise. 
(The team beam away) 
HAYNE: I want everything there is to know about the starship
Enterprise.

[Bridge]

RIKER: According to Hayne, the Coalition and the
Alliance raid each other for supplies, much of it non-essential. 
PICARD: Why? 
WORF: A battle exercise. 
RIKER: Their defences apparently prevent deep strikes into each other's
territory. Minor skirmishes are all that's left. 
PICARD: Coalition. Alliance. It all sounds so reasonable, but what
you've described is the behaviour of urban street thugs. We certainly
won't trade weapons for crewmen. How do you suggest we deal with them? 
RIKER: We have to tell them something. 
WORF: No promises, no denials. 
PICARD: For now, Hayne's Coalition is our only safe access to the
colony. We'll keep the door open, see where it leads us. 
WORF: Captain. Transmission coming in from Turkana Four, on a secure
channel. 
PICARD: On screen. 
HAYNE [on viewscreen]: Hello, Enterprise. Commander Riker, would you
introduce me to your Captain? 
PICARD: I'm Captain Jean-Luc Picard. 
HAYNE [on viewscreen]: I have someone here you might like to meet. This
is Ishara. Ishara Yar. 
ISHARA [on viewscreen]: Tasha was my sister. 
HAYNE [on viewscreen]: There's an old saying, Captain. The enemy of my
enemy is my friend. I've decided it's in my best interest to help you
get your crewmen back. 
PICARD: With nothing from us in return? 
HAYNE [on viewscreen]: You could be forced into paying my adversary a
ransom in weapons. I'll do anything I can to avoid that possibility. 
PICARD: What do you propose? 
HAYNE [on viewscreen]: Ishara will be our liaison. 
ISHARA [on viewscreen]: I know Alliance territory. I can help you with
a rescue plan. 
PICARD: One moment. 
WORF: Mute. 
PICARD: Reactions? 
WORF: I do not trust him. 
RIKER: She could be a fake. We told him a member of our crew was from
the colony. 
CRUSHER: All Hayne had to do was search through their database had on
Starfleet to come up with Tasha's name. 
PICARD: Counsellor? 
TROI: He's deceiving us, and he's clearly hoping to manipulate us. As
for the identity of the young woman, I can't really tell. 
PICARD: Neverthe less, this is an option we cannot neglect. We'll
continue on other fronts as they present themselves. For now, let's see
what she has to say. 
WORF: Open. 
PICARD: I have decided to accept your proposal. 
HAYNE [on viewscreen]: Thank you. Good luck.

[Transporter room]

DATA: Welcome to the Enterprise, Ishara. I am
Commander Data. 
ISHARA: You're not human. 
DATA: I am an android. 
ISHARA: Built for fighting? 
DATA: On what do you base that assumption? 
ISHARA: A cybernetic device serving on a starship. 
DATA: The Enterprise is not a ship of war. It is a ship of exploration.

ISHARA: The first thing to do is help you map the colony. This is a
general grid of the tunnel system. I can fill in the specific details
from memory. 
DATA: My orders are to escort you to the Observation Lounge. Please
come with me.

