RIKER OBRIEN WORF PICARD CRUSHER DATA

[Transporter room]

PICARD [OC]:: Mister O'Brien, prepare to lock onto
the two crewmen. 
O'BRIEN: Aye, Captain. 
[Bridge]

DATA: We are now entering the Turkana system, sir. 
PICARD: Slow to impulse. 
DATA: Visual contact. 
RIKER: Get them out of there, O'Brien. 
(There's a bright flash on the viewscreen) 
RIKER: Status, O'Brien? 
O'BRIEN [OC]: There's nothing to lock onto, Commander. 
DATA: I am reading an ion trail characteristic of a freighter escape
pod. 
WORF: Unable to establish contact. 
PICARD: It could have been damaged by the explosion. They may have been
able to maintain orbit. 
RIKER: Let's hope they stay clear of the colony. 
DATA: That is exactly where the ion trail is leading, Commander. 
PICARD: Hail the colony. 
WORF: I've been trying to, Captain. No response. 
RIKER: They haven't been able to maintain reliable communications since
their government fell apart. 
DATA: The last Federation vessel to make contact was the Potemkin, six
years ago. They were warned that anyone transporting down to the colony
would be killed. 
PICARD: Number One, ready an away team.

Captain's log, supplemental. We are in orbit above
Turkana Four, an Earth colony that severed relations with the
Federation nearly fifteen years ago. I am concerned about sending an
away team, but if we are to discover the fate of the two missing
Federation crewmen, I see no alternative.

[Transporter room]

DATA: The surface settlement appears to be all but
destroyed. Sensors show that the colonists now live in structures that
extend nearly three kilometres beneath the city. 
RIKER: Have you located the escape pod's landing point, Chief? 
O'BRIEN: Yes, sir. Three hundred metres beyond the colony perimeter. 
WORF: Sir, we can anticipate a violent response to our presence.
Perhaps the Doctor should wait here until we signal. 
CRUSHER: I appreciate your concern. I think it's exaggerated. 
WORF: The colony is completely lawless. Lieutenant Yar spoke of rape
gangs and 
CRUSHER: Mister Worf, I can handle myself. 
RIKER: She's coming. The Arcos crewmen may require immediate medical
assistance. Phasers on maximum stun. Energise.

