RIKER ISHARA LAFORGE WORF PICARD TANTSU CRUSHER DATA

[Corridor]

DATA: Your sister never spoke of you. 
ISHARA: That's not surprising. 
DATA: It is surprising to me. Tasha and I spent much time together. We
had a considerable number of conversations. 
ISHARA: Did she talk at all about the colony? 
DATA: Only to say that she was lucky to have escaped. 
ISHARA: It wasn't luck. It was cowardice. 
DATA: Cowardice is a term that I have never heard applied to Tasha. 
ISHARA: Is something wrong? 
DATA: No. It is just that for a moment, the expression on your face
reminded me of her. 
ISHARA: It's been fifteen years. I don't even remember what she looked
like.

[Observation lounge]

(Data and Ishara enter) 
ISHARA: You don't believe I'm Tasha's sister. 
PICARD: We have considered the possibility. 
ISHARA: I'm not surprised. You can sample my DNA if you like. 
CRUSHER: Yes, I will. 
PICARD: Please, sit down. 
(Riker offers her his seat) 
ISHARA: Thank you. 
PICARD: Perhaps it would help if you gave us some idea of what we're
dealing with on Turkana Four. The last information describes a colony
in almost complete disarray. 
ISHARA: It started falling apart almost thirty years ago. There were
dozens of factions. They fought until the city above ground was in
ruins. 
RIKER: The Coalition and the Alliance are all that's left? 
ISHARA: We were the two strongest factions. When the government
couldn't stop the violence, they gave us police powers. The proximity
detectors were originally designed by the government to keep us under
control. 
PICARD: Apparently, that part of the plan didn't work very well. 
ISHARA: No. After a few months, we didn't need the government any more.

LAFORGE: Tasha left you in the middle of all that? 
ISHARA: She didn't abandon me, if that's what you mean. Tasha asked me
to go with her, but I had already joined the Coalition. They were my
family. Captain, we don't have a lot of time. Maybe we should get
started. 
WORF [OC]: Incoming transmission from the colony, Captain. 
PICARD: On screen. 
TAN TSU [on monitor]: Enterprise, I'm being held by Turkana Four
Alliance. I've been instructed to say that you have twenty hours to
make reparations for Federation intrusion into this colony, or my pilot
and I will be killed. 
CRUSHER: Ask them if we can at least send some medical 
(transmission ends) 
ISHARA: Take that threat seriously, Captain. They'll torture them and
then they'll kill them. My cadre has never recovered a hostage alive
from the Alliance. Your crewmen could be held in any number of places.
The Alliance has two main headquarters and thirteen ancillary bases of
operation. All underground, all heavily guarded. 
LAFORGE: Captain, if I could get to the myographic scanner. 
ISHARA: What's that? 
DATA: A sensing device from the escape pod. It monitors the bioelectric
signatures of the crew, in the event they get separated from the pod. 
LAFORGE: I could install a booster on the device that would relay its
signals to the Enterprise. Then we could track the men from up here. 
PICARD: Unfortunately, we don't know where the escape pod is. 
ISHARA: Level three C, section five four seven. We have our sources. 
[Engineering]

(Ishara's data file is up on a monitor. There are a
lot of underground levels) 
ISHARA: Access tunnels are here and here. 
RIKER: We could transfer the away team right into this intersection. 
ISHARA: Don't underestimate them, Commander. They'll be ready for that.
I've seen them use this kind of strategy before.
I know it looks isolated and easily accessible, but my guess is they
have hundreds of men on the levels above and below just waiting for you
to make your move. 
WORF: We will need a diversion. 
LAFORGE: Transport a couple of photon grenades into the adjoining
chamber. At minimum intensity it wouldn't kill anybody, but it would
shake them up a bit. 
RIKER: That won't give us enough time. We need to occupy them long
enough for you to install the relay. 
ISHARA: Transport me into this corridor. My magnetic implant will set
off the defence alarms. They'll think it's a raid by the Coalition. 
RIKER: Too dangerous. We've seen what those tunnels look like. You
could easily be cut off from the rest of us. Worf, if we 
ISHARA: Commander Riker. I was ordered to assist you in any way
possible. That doesn't mean as long as it's safe or convenient. If you
had the time, we could come up with another plan, but you don't. Right
now, I'm your best option. 
DATA: She would have to be armed, sir. 
RIKER: I'd like to discuss this with the Captain. Take Ishara down to
see Doctor Crusher.

