DURAS PICARD GOWRON WORF KEHLEYR

[Ready room]

PICARD: Worf, the next few days will be difficult
for you 
WORF: You have made it clear that I am to perform my regular duties,
sir. 
PICARD: I want you to know that I am aware of your discomfort. 
WORF: Thank you, sir. 
PICARD: Ambassador K'Ehleyr will be preparing me for my role in the
rite of succession. 
WORF: Permission to speak freely, sir? 
PICARD: Granted. 
WORF: Duras must not be allowed to lead the council. 
PICARD: He has a legal claim, Mister Worf. Your personal feelings
toward him 
WORF: It is not personal, sir. His father betrayed my people to the
Romulans. Duras is a traitor. 
PICARD: Klingon tradition may hold the son responsible for his father's
sin. I cannot, Worf. Treason was his father's crime. Duras' crime was
to lay that blame on your father. I will not forget that. But you
should not forget that you chose to accept the consequences of that
lie. 
WORF: To preserve the Empire. 
PICARD: The issue now is whether or not he killed K'mpec. 
WORF: Sir? 
PICARD: He was murdered. Poisoned. 
WORF: A Klingon would not use poison. His murder would have no honour. 
PICARD: K'mpec believed that it was either Duras or Gowron. 
WORF: Well, I know little of Gowron. Only that he is an outsider who
has often challenged the Council. But Duras? I know him. His heart is
not Klingon. 
[K'mpec's quarters]

(K'mpec's body is still sitting in his chair.
Picard and K'Ehleyr stand beside it. She is holding a painstick.) 
K'EHLEYR: That's Gowron. 
PICARD: I hope this will be brief. 
K'EHLEYR: It will be just long enough to prove that K'mpec is dead. 
(Duras enters with two guards. K'Ehleyr hands the painstick to Picard.
He stands in front of K'mpec's body) 
PICARD: Qab jIH nagil (and presses the painstick to the corpse) 
GOWRON: Qab jIH nagil! 
(he does the same with a painstick he has brought) 
DURAS: Qab jiH nagil! 
(slightly more sadistically than Gowron) 
K'EHLEYR: Sonchi. 
DURAS: Now, complete the Rite of Succession. It's obvious who the two
challengers are. 
PICARD: We will proceed according to the traditions and the precedents
set down in Klingon law. 
GOWRON: What do you know of Klingon law, human? 
PICARD: We will reconvene on the Enterprise, wherein 
DURAS: No! Finish it here, now! 
(There's an explosion, people go flying)

[K'Ehleyr's quarters]

WORF: I have not received your report on the
explosion. 
K'EHLEYR: Two Klingons killed. A few minor injuries. Were you concerned
about me? 
WORF: As Head of Security, it is my duty to be concerned. 
K'EHLEYR: Is that it? Just official concern for my well being? 
WORF: You know my feelings. 
K'EHLEYR: Maybe I've forgotten. 
WORF: You were right. I would have insisted we take the oath. But not
just because of tradition. 
K'EHLEYR: I thought about telling you. Wanted to tell you. But I wasn't
ready. When I left, you said you'd never be complete without me. It
took some time but, I came to realise I need you too. You're part of
me, Worf. 
WORF: jIH dok. 
K'EHLEYR: maj dok. 
(a long pause as they gaze into each others eyes) 
WORF: No, I cannot allow you to suffer my humiliation. 
K'EHLEYR: There would be no suffering I don't care what other Klingons
think of you. 
WORF: But what of the boy? He may want to live in the Empire someday.
He would be an outcast. Another traitor from a family of traitors. 
K'EHLEYR: Family of traitors. I don't believe that for a minute. 
WORF: Respect my wishes in this matter. I cannot take the oath with
you. Nor can I claim your son. 
K'EHLEYR: If you cannot be his father, at least be his friend.

[Ready room]

PICARD: We haven't completed our analysis of the
bomb debris. Doctor Crusher is still studying the remains of the two
men killed in the explosion. We need more time. 
K'EHLEYR: Duras and Gowron will be here in a few minutes. I don't think
you can delay this meeting again. 
PICARD: Is there some way of stretching out the formalities once they
arrive? 
K'EHLEYR: In the modern Rite of Succession, only a brief proclamation
that two challengers have been chosen is necessary. 
PICARD: You said modern rite. How was the ritual performed in the past?

K'EHLEYR: The old forms dictated that the challengers perform the
ja'chuq. It's a long, involved ceremony where the challengers list the
battles they've won, the prizes they've taken, the idea being to prove
their worthiness to lead the Council. 
PICARD: Can the old form still be used? 
K'EHLEYR: It's up to you. You can use whatever form you want. 
PICARD: Thank you. 
K'EHLEYR: Captain, what do you know about Worf's discommendation? My
interest is personal. I understand that you were there. You stood by
him before the Council. I'd like to know what happened. 
PICARD: I'm sorry, I can't discuss it.

