K'MPEC K'EHLEYR WORF PICARD RIKER [OC] ALEXANDER
knows showing await accused need wanting playing epitaph really

[K'mpec's quarters]

(Picard is escorted into K'mpec's quarters. There's
a lot of red in the decor, and the chairs are massive) 
K'MPEC: It's about time you arrived, Picard. Sit. 
(He dismisses the guard with a wave of his hand) 
K'MPEC: I need your help. 
PICARD: If the Enterprise medical facility can do anything to help. 
K'MPEC: Too late. For some months I have been poisoned with small doses
of Veridium six. The wine. There is no cure. 
PICARD: What do you want of me? 
K'MPEC: After I die, you will act in my name to arbitrate the struggle
for power. 
PICARD: I will? 
K'MPEC: No one on the Council can be trusted, and I have my reasons for
wanting an outsider. 
PICARD: K'mpec, you cannot possibly be serious. A Federation officer
has no business in 
K'MPEC: Nonsense. You are an accomplished mediator. This is no
different than any other dispute requiring your services. 
PICARD: On the contrary, I think this is very different. And I must
respectfully decline. 
K'MPEC: If you refuse the dying request of the Klingon Supreme
Commander it will be a insult by the Federation to all Klingons.
Besides, I've already sent the order to the leaders of the two opposing
factions. They're on their way. 
PICARD: You had no right to involve me without my permission. 
K'MPEC: If I'd asked, you would have said no. 
PICARD: This is not a case of simple mediation. You are asking me to
choose the next leader of the Klingon Empire. 
K'MPEC: No. By tradition, the two strongest challengers fight for the
right of succession. As mediator, only you can designate those
challengers. 
PICARD: But you have just said there are only two challengers arriving.
What is the point? 
K'MPEC: I want you to discover which one of them has killed me. Gowron
or Duras. Yes, Duras. I thought you would find that interesting. 
PICARD: Interesting? You could say that, since he tried to have me
killed, and conspired to strip Worf of his good name. 
K'MPEC: And I approved. All for the glory of the Empire. That should be
my epitaph. Find the assassin. The Klingon who kills without showing
his face has no honour. He must not lead the Empire. Such a man would
be capable of anything. Even war with the Federation. 
PICARD: Very well. I accept. 
(K'mpec takes another drink of poisoned wine) 
Captain's log, supplemental. K'mpec, who ruled the
Klingon Empire longer than anyone in history, is dead. We await the
arrival of Duras and Gowron, rivals for the leadership of the High
Council.

[Schoolroom]

(Alexander is not playing nicely and sharing the
toys. Note, he is about half the height of Worf) 
WORF: There is no honour in attacking the weak. 
ALEXANDER: I would have won. 
WORF: No. You must earn victory. 
[Corridor]

ALEXANDER: Where are the other Klingons? 
WORF: There are no others on board. 
ALEXANDER: Why? 
WORF: The Federation and the Klingon Empire were enemies for many
years. No other Klingons have asked to serve in Starfleet. 
ALEXANDER: Why? 
WORF: A warrior does not ask so many questions. 
ALEXANDER: I don't want to be a warrior.

[K'Ehleyr's quarters]

(Alexander runs in and gets a hug) 
K'EHLEYR: Hello! Well, you're back early. 
ALEXANDER: He made me leave. 
K'EHLEYR: Maybe you should go to your room and play. 
(Alexander runs off) 
K'EHLEYR: Is he under arrest? 
WORF: He knows nothing of our ways! 
K'EHLEYR: Our ways? You mean Klingon ways, don't you? 
WORF: He is Klingon! 
K'EHLEYR: He is also my son and I am half-human. He will find his own
ways. Why the sudden concern? You won't even acknowledge that he's
yours. 
WORF: Why did you not tell me? 
K'EHLEYR: What would you have done? That's right. You would have
insisted that we take the oath, just as tradition would demand. 
WORF: You should not have kept this from me. 
K'EHLEYR: Well, now you know. 
WORF: I cannot acknowledge my relationship to the boy. It would only
harm him. 
K'EHLEYR: Because you were dishonoured? 
WORF: As my son, he would also bear my disgrace, as would his children.

K'EHLEYR: Why did you accept discommendation from the High Council? 
WORF: My father was accused of collaborating with the Romulans at
Khitomer. 
K'EHLEYR: I know. And I also know that you challenged it. 
WORF: Yes at first. Ultimately I withdrew my challenge. 
K'EHLEYR: But why, Worf? I can't believe you'd just give up. What
really happened? 
RIKER [OC]: Lieutenant Worf, Ambassador K'Ehleyr, report to the Bridge.

WORF: On our way, Commander.

