DURAS PICARD GOWRON K'EHLEYR WORF
believe proved reconvene according perform woman kill allow maj

[K'mpec's quarters]

(K'mpec's body is still sitting in his chair.
Picard and K'Ehleyr stand beside it. She is holding a painstick.) 
K'EHLEYR: That's Gowron. 
PICARD: I hope this will be brief. 
K'EHLEYR: It will be just long enough to prove that K'mpec is dead. 
(Duras enters with two guards. K'Ehleyr hands the painstick to Picard.
He stands in front of K'mpec's body) 
PICARD: Qab jIH nagil (and presses the painstick to the corpse) 
GOWRON: Qab jIH nagil! 
(he does the same with a painstick he has brought) 
DURAS: Qab jiH nagil! 
(slightly more sadistically than Gowron) 
K'EHLEYR: Sonchi. 
DURAS: Now, complete the Rite of Succession. It's obvious who the two
challengers are. 
PICARD: We will proceed according to the traditions and the precedents
set down in Klingon law. 
GOWRON: What do you know of Klingon law, human? 
PICARD: We will reconvene on the Enterprise, wherein 
DURAS: No! Finish it here, now! 
(There's an explosion, people go flying)

[K'Ehleyr's quarters]

WORF: I have not received your report on the
explosion. 
K'EHLEYR: Two Klingons killed. A few minor injuries. Were you concerned
about me? 
WORF: As Head of Security, it is my duty to be concerned. 
K'EHLEYR: Is that it? Just official concern for my well being? 
WORF: You know my feelings. 
K'EHLEYR: Maybe I've forgotten. 
WORF: You were right. I would have insisted we take the oath. But not
just because of tradition. 
K'EHLEYR: I thought about telling you. Wanted to tell you. But I wasn't
ready. When I left, you said you'd never be complete without me. It
took some time but, I came to realise I need you too. You're part of
me, Worf. 
WORF: jIH dok. 
K'EHLEYR: maj dok. 
(a long pause as they gaze into each others eyes) 
WORF: No, I cannot allow you to suffer my humiliation. 
K'EHLEYR: There would be no suffering I don't care what other Klingons
think of you. 
WORF: But what of the boy? He may want to live in the Empire someday.
He would be an outcast. Another traitor from a family of traitors. 
K'EHLEYR: Family of traitors. I don't believe that for a minute. 
WORF: Respect my wishes in this matter. I cannot take the oath with
you. Nor can I claim your son. 
K'EHLEYR: If you cannot be his father, at least be his friend.

[Ready room]

PICARD: We haven't completed our analysis of the
bomb debris. Doctor Crusher is still studying the remains of the two
men killed in the explosion. We need more time. 
K'EHLEYR: Duras and Gowron will be here in a few minutes. I don't think
you can delay this meeting again. 
PICARD: Is there some way of stretching out the formalities once they
arrive? 
K'EHLEYR: In the modern Rite of Succession, only a brief proclamation
that two challengers have been chosen is necessary. 
PICARD: You said modern rite. How was the ritual performed in the past?

K'EHLEYR: The old forms dictated that the challengers perform the
ja'chuq. It's a long, involved ceremony where the challengers list the
battles they've won, the prizes they've taken, the idea being to prove
their worthiness to lead the Council. 
PICARD: Can the old form still be used? 
K'EHLEYR: It's up to you. You can use whatever form you want. 
PICARD: Thank you. 
K'EHLEYR: Captain, what do you know about Worf's discommendation? My
interest is personal. I understand that you were there. You stood by
him before the Council. I'd like to know what happened. 
PICARD: I'm sorry, I can't discuss it.

[Observation lounge]

(both Duras and Gowron have an armed Starfleet
guard) 
DURAS: The Council must have a leader now! Complete the rite so I can
kill this ha'DIbah. 
GOWRON: You will die slowly, Duras. 
DURAS: You have already proved you don't have the courage to face me.
Perhaps you should plant another bomb! 
(they square up to fight) 
PICARD: mev yap! Sit down. We will begin the ja'chuq. 
GOWRON: What? 
DURAS: This woman has been giving you bad advice, Picard. The ja'chuq
is obsolete. 
PICARD: It is my choice to respect the ancient rituals. Each of you
will have to prove your worthiness to lead the High Council. 
GOWRON: That will take hours. 
K'EHLEYR: Or days, depending on your cooperation.

