TROI WORF PICARD RIKER KMPEC KEHLEYR DATA

[Schoolroom]

K'EHLEYR: I hope he'll be all right. Alexander
hasn't had much contact with other children.

[Turbolift]

K'EHLEYR: Not even a bite on the cheek for old
time's sake? 
WORF: Perhaps you're not aware of my dishonour. I have accepted
discommendation. 
K'EHLEYR: I've heard. So now what? I have to perform some ridiculous
ritual to talk to you? 
WORF: You may not respect our traditions, but I do. 
K'EHLEYR: Sorry. I just thought you might want to talk. A few minutes
ago, you looked like someone with a question to ask. 
WORF: Must I ask the question? 
K'EHLEYR: Yes, you must. 
(Worf gets out of the turbolift) 
K'EHLEYR: What should I tell Alexander? That he has no father?

[Observation lounge]

K'EHLEYR: The Klingon Empire is at a critical
juncture. We may be facing civil war. 
RIKER: War over what? 
K'EHLEYR: The usual excuses. Tradition, duty, honour. 
DATA: The word excuses implies ulterior motives for a conflict. 
K'EHLEYR: I won't bore you with the intricacies of Klingon politics.
Basically, two factions are trying to seize power. 
PICARD: Do you believe there is a threat to the Federation in this
struggle? 
K'EHLEYR: Klingon wars seldom remain confined to the Empire. Sooner or
later they'll drag in the neighbouring star systems, then the Tholians,
the Ferengi. The Federation won't be able to stay out of it for long.
This has been coming for some time. Only K'mpec, the head of the
Council, has been able to maintain the peace. 
TROI: Now something has changed that. 
K'EHLEYR: Correct. K'mpec is dying. He is aboard the cruiser. He has
come specifically to meet with you, Captain. Alone.

[K'mpec's quarters]

(Picard is escorted into K'mpec's quarters. There's
a lot of red in the decor, and the chairs are massive) 
K'MPEC: It's about time you arrived, Picard. Sit. 
(He dismisses the guard with a wave of his hand) 
K'MPEC: I need your help. 
PICARD: If the Enterprise medical facility can do anything to help. 
K'MPEC: Too late. For some months I have been poisoned with small doses
of Veridium six. The wine. There is no cure. 
PICARD: What do you want of me? 
K'MPEC: After I die, you will act in my name to arbitrate the struggle
for power. 
PICARD: I will? 
K'MPEC: No one on the Council can be trusted, and I have my reasons for
wanting an outsider. 
PICARD: K'mpec, you cannot possibly be serious. A Federation officer
has no business in 
K'MPEC: Nonsense. You are an accomplished mediator. This is no
different than any other dispute requiring your services. 
PICARD: On the contrary, I think this is very different. And I must
respectfully decline. 
K'MPEC: If you refuse the dying request of the Klingon Supreme
Commander it will be a insult by the Federation to all Klingons.
Besides, I've already sent the order to the leaders of the two opposing
factions. They're on their way. 
PICARD: You had no right to involve me without my permission. 
K'MPEC: If I'd asked, you would have said no. 
PICARD: This is not a case of simple mediation. You are asking me to
choose the next leader of the Klingon Empire. 
K'MPEC: No. By tradition, the two strongest challengers fight for the
right of succession. As mediator, only you can designate those
challengers. 
PICARD: But you have just said there are only two challengers arriving.
What is the point? 
K'MPEC: I want you to discover which one of them has killed me. Gowron
or Duras. Yes, Duras. I thought you would find that interesting. 
PICARD: Interesting? You could say that, since he tried to have me
killed, and conspired to strip Worf of his good name. 
K'MPEC: And I approved. All for the glory of the Empire. That should be
my epitaph. Find the assassin. The Klingon who kills without showing
his face has no honour. He must not lead the Empire. Such a man would
be capable of anything. Even war with the Federation. 
PICARD: Very well. I accept. 
(K'mpec takes another drink of poisoned wine) 
Captain's log, supplemental. K'mpec, who ruled the
Klingon Empire longer than anyone in history, is dead. We await the
arrival of Duras and Gowron, rivals for the leadership of the High
Council.

