JEAN-LUC TROI LAFORGE WORF PICARD RIKER TROI [on viewscreen] COMPUTER OGAWA CRUSHER DATA PICARD [on viewscreen]
recovery ops later won understandable know ready sounds strong

[Sickbay]

OGAWA: Doctor Crusher, he's awake. 
RIKER: Beverly? 
CRUSHER: Will. You remember me. That's good. What else do you remember,
Captain? 
RIKER: Captain? 
(He catches sight of his reflection. There's a little grey in the
beard) 
(After the opening titles) 
CRUSHER: Water, three Celsius. How do you feel? 
RIKER: Confused. 
CRUSHER: That's understandable, considering what's happened. 
RIKER: What has happened? What happened to Sickbay? To you? To me? 
CRUSHER: Sit down, Captain. 
RIKER: Captain? I am Commander William T Riker. What is going on here? 
CRUSHER: Sit. Please. What is the last thing that you remember clearly?

RIKER: Alpha Onias three. The Enterprise had been probed. Geordi, Worf,
and I transported down to track the source. 
CRUSHER: But all you found there was toxic gas. They barely had time to
get the three of you out. Will, that happened sixteen years ago. 
RIKER: That's not possible. 
CRUSHER: With an Altarian virus, anything is possible. In fact, we've
been expecting this. 
RIKER: Could you be more specific? 
CRUSHER: That day on Onias three, you were infected with a strain of
Altarian encephalitis, a retrovirus that incorporates its DNA directly
into the cells of its host. It can lie dormant for many years and then
suddenly become active again, as it did in your case ten days ago. You
have been in a coma, delirious. Your fever finally broke this morning. 
(really? So why is he in uniform and not sickbay gown?) 
RIKER: But what happened to my memory? 
CRUSHER: Let me show you a scan of your brain tissue. When the
encephalitis became active it caused widespread synapse degradation,
interrupting the consolidation of your memory patterns. 
RIKER: Doctor. 
CRUSHER: Will, this virus inevitably causes memory loss back to the
moment of the original infection. In your case, all the way back to
Alpha Onias three. 
RIKER: I don't believe this. Is this a dream? 
CRUSHER: Feel my hand. It is flesh and bone. This is not a dream and
you are, in fact, Captain William T. Riker in command of the
Enterprise. 
RIKER: The Enterprise. For how long? 
CRUSHER: Nine years. 
RIKER: If I have lost my memory, how do I get it back? 
CRUSHER: Memories are formed by association. Smells, sounds, and images
from the present could possibly trigger them. 
RIKER: Like a song reminds you of an old friend. 
CRUSHER: Exactly. In associational therapy, we expose the patient to
familiar surroundings. This could stimulate the brain's neural synapses
into regenerating. 
RIKER: Then let's get started. There's nothing more familiar than the
Enterprise. Maybe that'll bring back some 
CRUSHER: Will, I said your memory could return. In many of these cases
the damage is permanent.

[Corridor]

RIKER: What about Geordi and Worf? Were they
infected too? 
CRUSHER: Thankfully, no. Geordi appears to have been immune and the
Klingons don't seem to be affected by the virus. 
RIKER: Speaking of Klingons 
CRUSHER: There've been quite a few changes on the Enterprise in the
last sixteen years.

[Turbolift]

CRUSHER: Deck eight. 
RIKER: Belay that order. 
CRUSHER: We should begin the associational therapy in your quarters.
Personal recollections are always the most vivid. 
RIKER: My life was on the main Bridge. Always has been. If anything's
going to jog my memory. Main Bridge. 
COMPUTER: Repeat command. 
RIKER: I said main Bridge. 
CRUSHER: Computer's been slow all morning. A processing accelerator's
down. Commander La Forge has running a level one diagnostic to isolate
the problem.

[Bridge]

RIKER: Geordi. 
(He has normal eyes) 
LAFORGE: Oh, it's good to see you up and about again, sir. 
RIKER: Your eyes. What happened to your visor? 
LAFORGE: My visor? I'm sorry, sir. Doctor Crusher told us that you
might not remember. I haven't need a visor since I got these cloned
implants, Captain. 
(Worf is at Ops, and a Ferengi at helm) 
WORF: Captain. 
(Data is in a red uniform) 
DATA: Welcome back, Captain. We were not expecting to see you on the
Bridge so soon. 
RIKER: Commander Data. You're my First Officer? 
DATA: Do you remember, sir? 
RIKER: Data, I haven't remembered a day for the last sixteen years. 
WORF: Captain, warbird uncloaking. 
DATA: On screen. 
RIKER: Shields up. Red alert. 
DATA: Captain, we were expecting the Decius. There is no cause for
alarm. 
RIKER: Cancel red alert. Clearly I need to be briefed. 
WORF: Captain, the Decius is hailing us. The Admiral wishes to speak to
you. 
RIKER: On screen. 
(A bearded Picard, and a uniformed Troi by his side) 
PICARD [on viewscreen]: Will. 
RIKER: Admiral Picard. Deanna. 
TROI [on viewscreen]: How are you feeling? 
RIKER: I've felt better. 
PICARD [on viewscreen]: Not surprising. Altarian viruses can be a nasty
business. 
RIKER: That's an understatement. I can't even 
PICARD [on viewscreen]: We'll discuss this after we've transport over.
Picard out.

[Turbolift]

RIKER: Transporter room six. 
CRUSHER: How are you holding up? 
RIKER: I could get used to the idea of a Ferengi ensign, but Admiral
Picard on a Romulan warbird? What is that all about? 
CRUSHER: I think I should leave all the explanations to the Admiral.

[Transporter room]

RIKER: Whenever you're ready, Chief. 
(Picard and Troi are beamed aboard) 
PICARD: Captain Riker. it's good to see you have recovered. 
RIKER: I'm not exactly sure you can call it a recovery, sir. 
TROI: Then there has been some memory loss. 
PICARD: How much? 
CRUSHER: Everything since Alpha Onias three.

[Observation lounge]

PICARD: To lose sixteen years. It's almost beyond
belief. 
RIKER: I have trouble believing it myself. 
TROI: It's overwhelming to have so much of your life missing. 
PICARD: And it couldn't have happened at a worse time. A few more days
of relatively simple negotiations, and the treaty will be signed. 
RIKER: What negotiations? What treaty? 
PICARD: Sorry. I'll start at the beginning, which is four years ago. A
Romulan battle cruiser strayed into Federation space. Its warp coils
had collapsed, life support was failing. 
TROI: You saved them, Will, you and the Enterprise. 
PICARD: The Romulans were impressed, to say the least. After years of
distrust and conflict, they started to talk. You were our key spokesman
in securing the alliance with the Romulans. 
RIKER: How far have these negotiations progressed? 
PICARD: The preliminaries are over. All we need do now is escort the
Romulan Ambassador to the final session. 
TROI: Where you will complete the negotiations and sign the treaty. 
RIKER: Captain. Admiral. I am in no condition to negotiate with the
Romulans or with anyone else. 
PICARD: Will, you're sound of mind and body. If you are properly
briefed, you will still be able to fulfill your duty. 
RIKER: With a sixteen year gap in my head? 
PICARD: We do need you. 
RIKER: Sir, I'm not fit to resume command. 
PICARD: I appreciate your candour, but despite your condition there is
no one better equipped to deal with these Romulans than you. 
RIKER: When do we leave? 
PICARD: As soon as the Ambassador transports over from the Decius. We
will get through this, as we have many times before. 
(Picard leaves) 
RIKER: I hope so. 
TROI: Let me take you to your quarters. 
RIKER: Good idea. I've had enough surprises for one day.

[Riker's quarters]

TROI: Anything familiar? 
(a young boy is trying to play 'Three Blind Mice' on the
trombone)
JEAN-LUC: Hi, Dad. 
(a little later, the lad is looking for something) 
JEAN-LUC: and then Mister Greenburg asked about the Fornax Disaster,
and I knew the Enterprise saved all the colonists. But I didn't know.
(spots the PADD) Here it is. But I didn't know the exact stardate their
sun went nova, so of you tell me, I'll write it down and that way I
won't forget. You don't remember me, do you? 
RIKER: I'm sorry. 
TROI: I need to talk to your father, Jean-Luc. Would you mind leaving
us alone for a moment? 
(Jean-Luc goes into his bedroom) 
RIKER: Why didn't you warn me? 
TROI: Beverly hoped that meeting him like this might make an impact.
Help you remember. 
RIKER: Well, it made an impact alright. 
TROI: Give it time. 
RIKER: Jean-Luc. 
TROI: Yes. The Admiral was very pleased when you chose that name. He is
a wonderful boy. 
RIKER: Deanna, who's his mother? 
TROI: She died two years ago. A shuttle accident. I'm sorry, Will. 
RIKER: I have no recollection of her at all. What was she like? 
TROI: Min was beautiful, of course, strong, intelligent, patient. 
RIKER: Well, if she was married to me, she had to be patient.
TROI: She was an excellent Captain's wife, and a very good ship's
counsellor. She took over after I left. 
RIKER: I can't imagine you leaving the Enterprise. 
TROI: Admiral Picard offered me a position at Starfleet Command. It was
a tremendous opportunity. I couldn't refuse. But, what's important
right now, today, is that you have a son who needs you. Spend time with
him. You may find part of what you've lost. 
(Troi leaves) 
