TROI LAFORGE WORF PICARD RIKER ETHAN DATA TOMALAK
kilometre seven worf augment limited artificial cell met way

[Bridge]

RIKER: What's the problem? 
LAFORGE: I've had to shut down the warp engines, Captain. 
RIKER: Why? 
LAFORGE: Antimatter containment fields are fluctuating. It's nothing to
worry about though. 
RIKER: We're on the edge of the Neutral Zone on impulse power, and
you're not concerned? 
LAFORGE: I'll have the engines back online in no time, sir. 
RIKER: Like you tracked down that faulty processing accelerator? 
LAFORGE: I'm running a level one diagnostic. 
RIKER: For thirty hours? It would never take you more than four. You're
incapable of that level of incompetence, Mister La Forge. Worf, where
did you get that scar? 
WORF: In combat. 
RIKER: What battle? When? Which sector? Which unit? Mister Data, if we
left immediately, when would we arrive at Outpost twenty three? 
DATA: (thinks) At warp one, in three days, four hours. 
RIKER: How about at warp seven? (pause) At warp eight? At warp nine?
What's the matter, Data? What happened to those millions of
calculations per second? 
DATA: Pardon me, sir. I am experiencing subspace interference which
limits my abilities. I can't operate as quickly as 
RIKER: What did you say? 
DATA: I said I cannot operate 
RIKER: No! That's not what you said. You said I can't. You used a
contraction, didn't you? 
DATA: Sir, I can explain if you would just give me a moment. 
RIKER: No you can't. Don't even try. 
(Picard, Troi and Tomalak have come out of the ready room) 
PICARD: Captain, perhaps it would be best if we discussed this 
RIKER: Shut up! 
PICARD: I beg your pardon? 
RIKER: I said, shut up. As in close your mouth and stop talking. 
TROI: Will, I sense how upset you are. You're angry and impatient. 
RIKER: Deanna, back off. Well, would anyone else like to speak up? Or
shall we end this charade? 
TOMALAK: As you wish, Commander Riker. 
[Romulan Holodeck]

TOMALAK: The charade is over. 
[Control room]

(a technician is running a scanner over Riker,
returning his uniform and appearance to normal) 
RIKER: The Enterprise? my son you created it all. 
TOMALAK: With the help of our neural scanners and what you would call a
holodeck. Now, please tell me. How did you discover the truth? The
future we constructed for you should have been convincing. 
RIKER: It wasn't. There was a computer time lag, for one thing. 
TOMALAK: Unavoidable. Our scanners have a limited response time, so
whenever you strayed from our expectations. But surely that was not
enough to 
RIKER: To smash your house of cards? No. It was the visual record of my
wife, Minuet. Bad move. 
TOMALAK: But we chose someone from your past who is still alive. A
woman you were extremely attracted to 
RIKER: Your mistake, Tomalak. Minuet was nothing more than a computer
generated fantasy I once experienced on another holodeck. 
TOMALAK: Impossible. In your mind that woman exists, physically. Your
feelings toward her remain quite passionate. 
RIKER: She was part of a very special programme. 
TOMALAK: So much effort, so little accomplished. 
RIKER: If it was Outpost twenty three you were after, why didn't you
use your neural scanners to probe my mind? 
TOMALAK: Our scanners are calibrated for Romulan brain patterns. When
it comes to human brains, they are less efficient. There were gaps in
the information we gathered from your memory. 
RIKER: Gaps? From what I saw, I find that hard to believe. You
recreated the Enterprise, the crew, every nuance and smell, sound, with
perfect accurate. I didn't see any gaps. I don't buy it, Tomalak. 
TOMALAK: We're wasting time. Bring him.

[Tunnel]

(obviously artificial, with computer panels on the
walls) 
TOMALAK: When you and your colleagues transported to this planet, you
were less than a kilometre from this base. Your capture was a simple
matter. 
RIKER: My colleagues, where are they? 
TOMALAK: We allowed them to transport safely back to the Enterprise,
but your signal was diverted. 
RIKER: My people won't stop looking for me, Tomalak. 
TOMALAK: They already have. 
(He drops the forcefield on a room) 
TOMALAK: Please, say hello to your son. 
[Holding cell]

(Riker enters the comfortably furnished cell.
Tomalak and the guard stay outside) 
RIKER: Jean-Luc? 
TOMALAK: That is not his name, of course, nor have you ever really met
him. We merely used his image to augment your
programme. 
RIKER: What have you done to him? 
TOMALAK: While I am gone, please give careful thought to your
situation. 
(the forcefield goes back up, and the Romulans leave) 
RIKER: What's your name? 
(the boy backs away from him) 
RIKER: Whoa. If we're going to get out of here, you're going to have to
trust me. Easy, I'm not going to hurt you. Who are you? How did you get
here? My name is Will. 
ETHAN: Ethan. They brought me here with my parents. We were at a
research station on Miridian six. 
RIKER: Miridian six? On the edge of the Neutral Zone? I thought that
was uninhabited. 
ETHAN: The station was set up last year. Then the Romulans came. 
RIKER: It's odd that the Enterprise wasn't advised. Where are your
parents now? 
ETHAN: They took them away. 
RIKER: Do you know why the Romulans are keeping you here? 
ETHAN: No. I just want to get away. 
RIKER: I'll get us out of here, Ethan. 
ETHAN: How? Even if we do get away, they'll find us. They found me when
I escaped before. 
RIKER: You escaped? 
ETHAN: Yes. I hid in a secret place for weeks, but they caught me when
I came out to find food. 
(Tomalak and a guard storm back in) 
TOMALAK: I want that information, Commander. I want the location of
Outpost twenty three. Very well. I have been given permission to use
whatever means are necessary 
(Ethan makes a run for it through the open door) 
RIKER: Ethan, no! 
TOMALAK: Stop him! 
(Riker punches Tomalak, then gets the guard off Ethan and takes his
weapon) 
[Tunnel]

RIKER: That secret hiding place of yours? 
(he shoots another guard) 
ETHAN: This way 
(they run, shooting another Romulan on the way) 
ETHAN: In here.

[Crawlspace]

(Ethan fastens the grill back in place. Another
Romulans tests it and tries to look in, then leaves) 
RIKER: Their sensors should have picked us up. 
ETHAN: No, they can't. I heard them. There's something in these rocks. 
RIKER: Heavy metals? 
ETHAN: Right. 
(they go through a hole in a wall into -)

[Store room]

ETHAN: The Romulans forgot all about this storeroom
when they rebuilt their tunnels. Here, use these. Help me. 
(they build a barricade of boxes in front of the hole, then switch on
the light. It's quite a big room) 
ETHAN: After I got away last time, I mapped out all their tunnels.
Supply depot, communications, living quarters and shuttlebay. 
RIKER: How many guards in the shuttlebay? 
ETHAN: Only two or three. 
RIKER: If we stole a shuttlecraft, that would get us nowhere. The
Romulans could follow their own ship to easily. But if we broke into
their communications system, we could send a message to the Enterprise.

ETHAN: We can't do that. The transmitter is on a voice-activated
security system. 
RIKER: Do you know whose voice activates it? 
ETHAN: Only Ambassador Tomalak. 
RIKER: Who? 
ETHAN: Tomalak. 
RIKER: Ambassador Tomalak? Tomalak is a Romulan Captain. The only time
he was ever called Ambassador was in a holodeck fantasy. How do you
know about that? 
ETHAN: You, er, you told me about him. 
RIKER: Who are you? What is your part in all this? 
(noises off) 
ETHAN: They've found us! 
RIKER: But you said their sensors didn't work in this tunnel. 
ETHAN: They must have fixed them. We've got to go! 
RIKER: Where are we going to go, Ethan? 
ETHAN: The shuttlebay. There's still time. 
RIKER: I've had enough. 
(the barricade is knocked down) 
TOMALAK: Commander, surrender your weapon. 
RIKER: No more games. No more fantasies. I'm not going to play anymore.

(and the Romulans and the store room vanish)

