PICARD DIRGO WESLEY
better cave took break dresci cuts worst trouble feeling

[Cavern]

(they emerge from tunnels into a lit cavern with a
fountain in the middle) 
DIRGO: I knew there had to be water. 
(but he is stopped by a forcefield) 
PICARD: Mister Crusher what was that? 
WESLEY: It seems to be some kind of tightly confined annular force
field, sir. 
PICARD: Put there to protect the water. 
WESLEY: Yes. There has to be a way to deactivate it, sir. 
DIRGO: We can, with our phasers. 
PICARD: Mister Dirgo, I think it would be wiser 
(Dirgo fires at the forcefield) 
WESLEY: Captain, the EM reading. The power level's really spiking now. 
DIRGO: I think it's working. 
PICARD: Dirgo! 
(some things rush into the cavern, rather like the seraphim from
Raiders of the Lost Ark) 
PICARD: Stop firing! 
(one of the things takes the weapon from Dirgo. Rocks are coming loose)

PICARD: Wesley! 
(Picard pushes Wesley aside then gets buried under falling rocks
himself)

[Cave]

(later, after they've dug him out again and moved
him to a small side cave) 
WESLEY: Apply pressure to that wound. (scans Picard) This is the worst
break. 
DIRGO: What was that thing? 
WESLEY: Keep the pressure constant. 
PICARD: Ensign, how bad is it? 
WESLEY: Your right leg is broken. You have a fracture in your left arm.
And you took a blow to the head. But we're getting the bleeding under
control. 
PICARD: Well done. I'm going to be fine. I just need to get my breath. 
DIRGO: Are you telling the truth? 
WESLEY: What truth? 
DIRGO: He's bleeding inside. I've seen it before. He's never going to
survive. 
WESLEY: You don't know what you're talking about. 
(pours alcohol on the cuts) 
DIRGO: You're wasting your time. Will you save that dresci for us. 
PICARD: Mister Dirgo, I would appreciate it if you didn't bury me
before I'm gone. 
(Dirgo storms off) 
PICARD: The trouble is, he could be right. 
WESLEY: No, he's not, sir. You're going to be fine. 
PICARD: Wesley, you are going to have to keep a rein on Dirgo. He's
wilful and stubborn. That's dangerous. 
WESLEY: You'll handle him, sir. 
PICARD: Wesley, listen to me. I have no feeling in my right leg. My
vision is blurred. I'm going to get worse, not better. I'm not going to
be able to help you. Now, you are going to have to stand up to Dirgo on
your own. 
WESLEY: Yes, sir. 
PICARD: Hey. Good man. 
First Officer's log, stardate 44307.6. Radiation
levels on the Enterprise continue to rise. The ventilation system has
started pumping hyronalin into our air supply to counteract the
effects.

