PICARD DIRGO WESLEY

[Moon's surface]

(They've fashioned headdresses for themselves, and
Wesley is working in the shadow of the shuttle) 
PICARD: Any luck with the tricorder, Ensign? 
WESLEY: I think so, sir. The scanning range may be a bit limited, but
it's better than nothing. 
DIRGO: These were on board, Captain. They're working. 
(weapons, on makeshift belts) 
PICARD: Excellent. Our communicators may not be able to get a signal
through this strong a magnetic field. I'm fashioning an arrow. If a
search party finds the wreckage, they'll know we've headed for those
mountains. 
(using brittle debris to make the pointer on the sand) 
DIRGO: Are you crazy? They're too far away. We'll never make it. 
PICARD: We can't survive in this sun. Where there's mountains, there's
shelter. 
DIRGO: You've got no right to make the decisions. I'm the captain of
this ship. 
WESLEY: If you want to get out of this, I suggest you listen to Captain
Picard. He's the one who's going to keep us alive. 
PICARD: Thank you, Ensign, that's enough. Captain Dirgo, you're an able
pilot. I welcome your input. Do you feel that there is an alternative
we're overlooking? 
DIRGO: No. 
PICARD: Very well. I suggest a steady pace, not a brisk one. We need to
ration our energy. Try breathing through your nose. That way it will
help to prevent dehydration. I'll lead. Captain Dirgo, will you bring
up the rear? 
(Dirgo says farewell to his ship, picks up the medical bag and off they
trudge) 
(Dirgo is the first one to stumble in the heat) 
WESLEY: And you were worried about how tough the Captain is? 
(Wesley walks off, and Dirgo takes a swig from a concealed bottle) 
(the mountains are a lot closer now) 
DIRGO: Did you find water? 
WESLEY: No, not yet. 
DIRGO: What are you doing with that? 
PICARD: Mister Crusher? 
WESLEY: I'm not sure, sir. It's an energy reading. 
PICARD: Energy reading? What kind? 
WESLEY: Low frequency EM. It's been getting stronger the closer we get
to those mountains. 
DIRGO: What are you saying? Is something over there, waiting for us? 
WESLEY: I'm not sure what it is. It just keeps registers as a repeating
energy pattern. 
PICARD: Ensign, are you suggesting this energy is not naturally
occurring? 
WESLEY: The readings could be indicative of some electromagnetic
properties in the rocks, but I don't think so. 
PICARD: A life form? 
WESLEY: It's possible. The pattern is fairly organised. 
PICARD: Well, we can't go back and we can't stay here. We've got to
keep going for the mountains. No matter what is waiting there.

[Cave entrance]

(the ceiling is high, there is a wonderfully even
flight of steps down, and Picard is carrying the medical supplies) 
DIRGO: There has to be water in here. Aren't caves formed by water? 
PICARD: Not necessarily. This could be created by volcanic activity.
Lava flows. These walls are dry, Mister Crusher, do you have any
moisture reading? 
WESLEY: No, sir. But that EM reading? The pattern's changed. The
frequency's peaking a lot higher. 
(Dirgo accidentally drops his bottle while undoing his tunic) 
WESLEY: You have water! 
DIRGO: I wouldn't hide water. That's called dresci. It's from my
planet. 
PICARD: It's alcohol. 
DIRGO: It's medicinal. It's for emergencies. I was going to share it
with you. 
PICARD: This wouldn't quench your thirst, it would make it worse. 
DIRGO: I'll take my chances. 
PICARD: I'm not going to let you waste this. This is more valuable to
us as a coolant or disinfectant. 
DIRGO: It's mine. 
PICARD: Mister Crusher, stow that with the medical supplies. Keep your
eye on it. All right, we're going to explore the cave. Mister Crusher,
look for any signs of water, no matter how faint. Captain Dirgo, will
you lead the way?

