RIKER LAFORGE PICARD WESLEY COMPUTER OGAWA CRUSHER ALLENBY DIRGO DATA

[Cave]

(later, after they've dug him out again and moved
him to a small side cave) 
WESLEY: Apply pressure to that wound. (scans Picard) This is the worst
break. 
DIRGO: What was that thing? 
WESLEY: Keep the pressure constant. 
PICARD: Ensign, how bad is it? 
WESLEY: Your right leg is broken. You have a fracture in your left arm.
And you took a blow to the head. But we're getting the bleeding under
control. 
PICARD: Well done. I'm going to be fine. I just need to get my breath. 
DIRGO: Are you telling the truth? 
WESLEY: What truth? 
DIRGO: He's bleeding inside. I've seen it before. He's never going to
survive. 
WESLEY: You don't know what you're talking about. 
(pours alcohol on the cuts) 
DIRGO: You're wasting your time. Will you save that dresci for us. 
PICARD: Mister Dirgo, I would appreciate it if you didn't bury me
before I'm gone. 
(Dirgo storms off) 
PICARD: The trouble is, he could be right. 
WESLEY: No, he's not, sir. You're going to be fine. 
PICARD: Wesley, you are going to have to keep a rein on Dirgo. He's
wilful and stubborn. That's dangerous. 
WESLEY: You'll handle him, sir. 
PICARD: Wesley, listen to me. I have no feeling in my right leg. My
vision is blurred. I'm going to get worse, not better. I'm not going to
be able to help you. Now, you are going to have to stand up to Dirgo on
your own. 
WESLEY: Yes, sir. 
PICARD: Hey. Good man. 
First Officer's log, stardate 44307.6. Radiation
levels on the Enterprise continue to rise. The ventilation system has
started pumping hyronalin into our air supply to counteract the
effects.

[Bridge]

DATA: At the rate the radiation levels are
increasing, the hyronalin additive will only be effective for another
thirty eight minutes. 
CRUSHER: Crusher to Medical unit one, evacuate and seal off all
non-operational areas. Group the crew and their families in the
interior corridors of decks nine and ten. Radiation exposure protocol. 
OGAWA [OC]: Acknowledged, Doctor. 
RIKER: Mister Data, at our current speed, how long will it take us to
get through the asteroid belt? 
DATA: Fifty one minutes, fourteen seconds, sir. 
CRUSHER: There's going to be a lot of casualties if we can't get there
any faster. 
RIKER: Mister La Forge, how much more can we get out of that tractor
beam? 
LAFORGE: We're already at the maximum limits of our towing speed,
Commander. 
RIKER: Let's see if we can establish a new upper limit. 
LAFORGE: Yes, sir. Data, monitor the shearing effect on the beam.
Increasing to one half impulse. 
DATA: Tractor beam is holding. Shearing force, eighty metric tons per
metre. 
LAFORGE: Increasing to three quarters impulse. 
DATA: Shearing force ninety two metric tons. Ninety three. Tractor beam
is destabilising. Se are going to lose the barge, Commander. 
RIKER: Reduce power. 
ALLENBY: One half impulse. 
RIKER: Geordi, you've got to stabilise that tractor beam. 
LAFORGE: I can't divert any more power to the shields. We're already
hitting our maximum thermal limits. Only other choice is to bring some
other fusion reactors online, but we're running at peak coolant
pressure. 
RIKER: Do it. 
COMPUTER: Warning. Radiation levels at one hundred fifty millirads per
minute and rising. Lethal exposure in thirty five minutes.

