RIKER SONGI WORF PICARD DIRGO CRUSHER DATA LAFORGE

[Moon's surface]

(a very bright sun is glaring down on a desert) 
PICARD: Dear God. Let's salvage what we can. The first thing we'll need
is shelter from the sun. In this heat, the shuttle will act like an
oven. 
DIRGO: All the systems are out. Can't get a communication channel.
Location transponder's gone too. 
PICARD: We'll have to check the craft for something to protect our
heads and eyes. And Captain, please recover your medical supplies, food
and water rations 
DIRGO: Well, the medical supplies are all right. 
PICARD: Food and water? 
DIRGO: The replicator, damaged beyond repair. 
PICARD: Surely you have emergency supplies? 
DIRGO: This isn't a starship. I have to choose what I carry. 
PICARD: Are you telling me there's no water?

[Bridge]

(Enterprise meets up with the polluter) 
DATA: Scanning. Vessel reads as an unmanned sublight freighter. 
RIKER: Origin? 
DATA: Indeterminate. Propulsion appears to employ a gaseous core
fission reactor, but it is not functioning. 
LAFORGE: The radiation levels from that ship are off the scale. 
RIKER: Could that be leakage from their engines? 
DATA: No, sir. Engine reactor elements appear to have been inactive for
approximately three hundred years. The vessel is carrying various
unstable waste products. 
LAFORGE: You mean, it's a garbage scow. 
DATA: Precisely. 
RIKER: Mister Worf, open a hailing frequency. Chairman Songi, this is
Commander Riker on board the Enterprise. 
SONGI [on viewscreen]: Yes, Commander. 
RIKER: It appears you've inherited someone else's problem. An old waste
vessel caught by your planet's gravitational pull. 
CRUSHER: Have your people begun to suffer from radiation sickness? 
SONGI [on viewscreen]: Not yet, but some areas are already detecting
dangerous levels. 
RIKER: We'll do our best to get it out of here as quickly as possible. 
SONGI [on viewscreen]: Thank you, Commander. 
RIKER: We're going to push that barge into the Gamelan sun. 
DATA: Sir, the Meltasion asteroid belt lies between here and the sun. 
RIKER: Then we'll have to take it ourselves. We'll use our deflectors
clear a path through the asteroids. 
LAFORGE: I don't like the idea of getting close enough to that barge to
tow it. The radiation levels are so high we'd be risking the
contamination of the entire crew. 
RIKER: Do you have a better idea, Geordi? 
LAFORGE: We could send over a construction module to attach thrusters
to it. Then we could direct it through the asteroid belt from a safe
distance. 
WORF: Commander, a message from the mining settlement on Pentarus Five.
The shuttlecraft carrying Captain Picard has not yet arrived. 
CRUSHER: They left here at oh eight hundred hours. 
WORF: They have asked if we are beginning a search. 
RIKER: Tell them we have an emergency situation. We'll begin a search
as soon as we've completed that. 
WORF: Aye, sir. 
RIKER: Mister La Forge, prepare to launch the construction module. I'd
like to get this over with as fast as possible.

