RIKER LAFORGE WORF PICARD WESLEY CRUSHER DATA
going kind captain don think course good trying asked

[Cave]

PICARD: Cold. 
WESLEY: When the sun went down, the temperature really dropped. This
should help. 
(Wesley heats rocks with a phaser) 
PICARD: Good. Thank you. I'm not much good to you, Wesley. 
WESLEY: Sir, Dirgo is dead. I should've tried harder to stop him, but
he. Captain! Captain Picard! Sir, stay with me. 
PICARD: I'm trying. 
WESLEY: Sir, do you remember when we took the shuttlecraft to Starbase
five one five? I was dreading it. Six hours alone with you. But it
didn't turn out the way that I thought. You opened up to me. I kind of
got to know you. 
PICARD: Wesley, it's my fault that you're here. I shouldn't have asked
you. 
WESLEY: Sir, I'm honoured you wanted me along. 
PICARD: I was selfish. I thought I wouldn't see you again. I'm sorry. 
WESLEY: Sir, in the past three years I've lived more than most people
do in a lifetime. I think I'm very lucky. no matter what happens. How
many people get to serve with Jean-Luc Picard? Sir, you don't know
this. No one knows this, because I never told anyone. All of the things
I've worked for, school, my science projects, getting into the Academy,
I've done it all because I want you to be proud of me. If there is one
thing that I've learned from you, it's that you don't quit. And I'm not
going to quit now. I've seen you think yourself out of worse problems
than this, and I'm going to think us out of this. You're not going to
die. I'm not going to let you die. I'll get to the water and I'll keep
you alive until they find us. I promise.

First Officer's log, supplemental. The Enterprise
is returning to the last known location of the missing shuttlecraft.

 [Bridge]

RIKER: Are you certain? 
DATA: It is definitely debris. The primary material is duranium, with
smaller proportions of sonodanite and ermanium. 
LAFORGE: Most shuttlecraft hulls are made of duranium. 
CRUSHER: Then they're gone. 
DATA: Not necessarily, Doctor. There is far too little debris to
account for an entire shuttlecraft. 
RIKER: So what is it? 
LAFORGE: You know, Dirgo had his manoeuvring thrusters rigged a funny
way. Claimed it was more efficient. If one of them blew it might have
left debris like that. 
RIKER: If only one of his thrusters was out, he could still have set
down somewhere. 
DATA: The only Class M planets in the system are Pentarus two and five,
both of which have been thoroughly searched by the miners. 
RIKER: Then we'll search them again. 
DATA: Sir, there are also four moons in the Pentarus system that could
support life. 
RIKER: Have the miners searched them? 
WORF: Not yet, sir. 
RIKER: Which one is the closest one to the debris coordinates? 
DATA: Lambda Paz, one of the moons of Pentarus three. 
RIKER: Set a course, Ensign.

