SONGI [on viewscreen] RIKER LAFORGE WORF PICARD WESLEY DIRGO CRUSHER DATA
crazy launch gamelan dangerous arrow path situation beginning occurring

[Bridge]

(Enterprise meets up with the polluter) 
DATA: Scanning. Vessel reads as an unmanned sublight freighter. 
RIKER: Origin? 
DATA: Indeterminate. Propulsion appears to employ a gaseous core
fission reactor, but it is not functioning. 
LAFORGE: The radiation levels from that ship are off the scale. 
RIKER: Could that be leakage from their engines? 
DATA: No, sir. Engine reactor elements appear to have been inactive for
approximately three hundred years. The vessel is carrying various
unstable waste products. 
LAFORGE: You mean, it's a garbage scow. 
DATA: Precisely. 
RIKER: Mister Worf, open a hailing frequency. Chairman Songi, this is
Commander Riker on board the Enterprise. 
SONGI [on viewscreen]: Yes, Commander. 
RIKER: It appears you've inherited someone else's problem. An old waste
vessel caught by your planet's gravitational pull. 
CRUSHER: Have your people begun to suffer from radiation sickness? 
SONGI [on viewscreen]: Not yet, but some areas are already detecting
dangerous levels. 
RIKER: We'll do our best to get it out of here as quickly as possible. 
SONGI [on viewscreen]: Thank you, Commander. 
RIKER: We're going to push that barge into the Gamelan sun. 
DATA: Sir, the Meltasion asteroid belt lies between here and the sun. 
RIKER: Then we'll have to take it ourselves. We'll use our deflectors
clear a path through the asteroids. 
LAFORGE: I don't like the idea of getting close enough to that barge to
tow it. The radiation levels are so high we'd be risking the
contamination of the entire crew. 
RIKER: Do you have a better idea, Geordi? 
LAFORGE: We could send over a construction module to attach thrusters
to it. Then we could direct it through the asteroid belt from a safe
distance. 
WORF: Commander, a message from the mining settlement on Pentarus Five.
The shuttlecraft carrying Captain Picard has not yet arrived. 
CRUSHER: They left here at oh eight hundred hours. 
WORF: They have asked if we are beginning a search. 
RIKER: Tell them we have an emergency situation. We'll begin a search
as soon as we've completed that. 
WORF: Aye, sir. 
RIKER: Mister La Forge, prepare to launch the construction module. I'd
like to get this over with as fast as possible.

[Moon's surface]

(They've fashioned headdresses for themselves, and
Wesley is working in the shadow of the shuttle) 
PICARD: Any luck with the tricorder, Ensign? 
WESLEY: I think so, sir. The scanning range may be a bit limited, but
it's better than nothing. 
DIRGO: These were on board, Captain. They're working. 
(weapons, on makeshift belts) 
PICARD: Excellent. Our communicators may not be able to get a signal
through this strong a magnetic field. I'm fashioning an arrow. If a
search party finds the wreckage, they'll know we've headed for those
mountains. 
(using brittle debris to make the pointer on the sand) 
DIRGO: Are you crazy? They're too far away. We'll never make it. 
PICARD: We can't survive in this sun. Where there's mountains, there's
shelter. 
DIRGO: You've got no right to make the decisions. I'm the captain of
this ship. 
WESLEY: If you want to get out of this, I suggest you listen to Captain
Picard. He's the one who's going to keep us alive. 
PICARD: Thank you, Ensign, that's enough. Captain Dirgo, you're an able
pilot. I welcome your input. Do you feel that there is an alternative
we're overlooking? 
DIRGO: No. 
PICARD: Very well. I suggest a steady pace, not a brisk one. We need to
ration our energy. Try breathing through your nose. That way it will
help to prevent dehydration. I'll lead. Captain Dirgo, will you bring
up the rear? 
(Dirgo says farewell to his ship, picks up the medical bag and off they
trudge) 
(Dirgo is the first one to stumble in the heat) 
WESLEY: And you were worried about how tough the Captain is? 
(Wesley walks off, and Dirgo takes a swig from a concealed bottle) 
(the mountains are a lot closer now) 
DIRGO: Did you find water? 
WESLEY: No, not yet. 
DIRGO: What are you doing with that? 
PICARD: Mister Crusher? 
WESLEY: I'm not sure, sir. It's an energy reading. 
PICARD: Energy reading? What kind? 
WESLEY: Low frequency EM. It's been getting stronger the closer we get
to those mountains. 
DIRGO: What are you saying? Is something over there, waiting for us? 
WESLEY: I'm not sure what it is. It just keeps registers as a repeating
energy pattern. 
PICARD: Ensign, are you suggesting this energy is not naturally
occurring? 
WESLEY: The readings could be indicative of some electromagnetic
properties in the rocks, but I don't think so. 
PICARD: A life form? 
WESLEY: It's possible. The pattern is fairly organised. 
PICARD: Well, we can't go back and we can't stay here. We've got to
keep going for the mountains. No matter what is waiting there.

