WESLEY DIRGO PICARD

[Shuttlecraft]

DIRGO: You've done this before? 
WESLEY: Yes. 
DIRGO: Your Captain back there. If he isn't tougher than he looks,
those miners will tear him apart. 
WESLEY: Don't worry about Captain Picard. He'll handle them. 
(alarms come on and the lights go out) 
WESLEY: I've lost navigation. 
DIRGO: The port thruster quad's gone. Guidance coupling's severed. I
can't stabilise her. 
(they plunge towards a planetary system. Picard comes out of the rear
compartment) 
WESLEY: The port thruster module blew. 
DIRGO: Nenebek to Enterprise, emergency. Do you read? Pentarus station,
come in. Communication's gone. 
PICARD: Is your navigational system functioning? 
DIRGO: Negative. Switching to manual. Fifty million kilometres to
Pentarus Five. We may have to put down somewhere else. 
PICARD: Mister Crusher, scan for a class-M environment. 
WESLEY: Aye, sir. 
DIRGO: I'm going to have to throttle back on the main impulse engines. 
WESLEY: Sir, one of the moons around Pentarus Three registers as class
M, barely. The mean temperature is fifty five degrees Celsius. 
PICARD: Life forms indicated? 
WESLEY: Negative, but scanning is limited. There's a very strong
magnetic field around the surface. 
DIRGO: We don't have a choice. Save the impulse engine for controlled
entry. 
PICARD: Mister Crusher, reconfigure working thrusters to manual input. 
WESLEY: I'll try, sir but, this grid looks about a hundred years old. 
DIRGO: We don't have the Federation's resources. Captain, take the
helm. I'm rerouting the deuterium flow. Hull temperature seven hundred
degrees. 
PICARD: Beginning braking manoeuvre. 
DIRGO: We're below mach one. Bypass the thrusters now. 
PICARD: Brace yourself for impact. 
[Moon's surface]

(a very bright sun is glaring down on a desert) 
PICARD: Dear God. Let's salvage what we can. The first thing we'll need
is shelter from the sun. In this heat, the shuttle will act like an
oven. 
DIRGO: All the systems are out. Can't get a communication channel.
Location transponder's gone too. 
PICARD: We'll have to check the craft for something to protect our
heads and eyes. And Captain, please recover your medical supplies, food
and water rations 
DIRGO: Well, the medical supplies are all right. 
PICARD: Food and water? 
DIRGO: The replicator, damaged beyond repair. 
PICARD: Surely you have emergency supplies? 
DIRGO: This isn't a starship. I have to choose what I carry. 
PICARD: Are you telling me there's no water?

