TROI LAFORGE WORF PICARD RIKER BROOKS GUINAN COMPUTER DATA ALLENBY

[Engineering]

COMPUTER: Warning. Differential stress will exceed
upper 
LAFORGE: Engines disengaged, sir. 
[Bridge]

RIKER: Report, La Forge. 
LAFORGE [OC]: The energy we wanted to transfer to the nacelles

[Engineering]

LAFORGE: Was absorbed by the graviton wake instead.
It set up a torsional wave that rebounded back to the ship. 
[Bridge]

LAFORGE [OC]: We're lucky the hull is still in one
piece. 
PICARD: This little nuisance is beginning to lose its fascination. 
DATA: Sir, during our attempt to break away, I recorded a momentary
alteration of the movement pattern within the cluster. 
RIKER: You think we got their attention, Data? 
DATA: Perhaps, but just for an instant. The pattern immediately
returned to its previous dynamic. 
PICARD: Follow up on it, Mister Data. Input your observations into the
Universal Translator. 
DATA: Aye, sir. 
PICARD: Perhaps the movements themselves are an attempt at
communication. 
[Ten Forward]

GUINAN: (sneaking up from behind) More tea? I
didn't mean to startle you. 
TROI: That's alright. I'm getting used to it. 
GUINAN: May I? 
TROI: Sure. 
(Guinan sits with her) 
GUINAN: Are you really getting used to it? 
TROI: No. 
GUINAN: Do you want to talk about it? 
TROI: No. 
GUINAN: Good. I get so tired of people coming in with their problems.
They come in, they want a shoulder to cry on, and generally it turns
out to be mine. 
TROI: You'd make a good counsellor. 
GUINAN: I think so too. So I'm going to talk to Picard about it. 
TROI: About what? You becoming counsellor? 
GUINAN: Well, yes, you're leaving. That means there won't be a
counsellor on board, and I suppose I'm going to have a very long line
at that bar. It would be nice to have a nice office, too. 
TROI: It's more than just letting them cry on your shoulder. It takes
an enormous commitment. 
GUINAN: I can do that. 
TROI: Guinan, people come to you to talk about things they want to
reveal. As ship's counsellor, you have to get them to talk about things
they don't want to reveal. 
GUINAN: I could do that too. 
TROI: What are you? You don't really want to be ship's counsellor. 
GUINAN: What would make you say that? 
TROI: I just know you're not serious. 
GUINAN: Have I given you any indication that I might not serious? 
TROI: Not really, but 
GUINAN: Then how do you know? Are your empathic abilities coming back? 
TROI: No. I suppose it's just instinctive. I get it. You're trying to
make me see that I have other abilities to draw on. Human intuition,
instincts. Guinan, those skills only develop after years of experience.
It's not that easy. 
GUINAN: No one said it was easy. It's much harder than you think. Human
intuition and instinct are not always right, but they do make life
interesting. 
TROI: So I'm discovering. 
[Bridge]

RIKER: Problem, Data? 
DATA: Yes, Commander. Sensors are detecting highly accelerated
interstellar gases. 
RIKER: Suggesting? 
DATA: Uncertain, sir. The phenomenon is within visual range. 
RIKER: On screen. (it's a vague purple thing) Magnify. 
DATA: It appears to be a cosmic string fragment. Only one hundred seven
kilometres long. 
ALLENBY: A cosmic string? 
RIKER: No wider than a proton but with gravitational fields as powerful
as a black hole. 
DATA: The two-dimensional beings seem to be caught in the gravitational
pull of the string. Their course is taking them directly toward it. 
RIKER: And us right along with them.

Captain's log, stardate 44359.5. What began as a
curious inconvenience has turned into a serious threat. At current
speed, the two-dimensional beings and the Enterprise will be drawn into
the cosmic string fragment in seven hours.

[Bridge]

DATA: The entities offer no indication that they
are aware of the string fragment, Captain. Their course and speed
remain constant. 
WORF: Sir, recommend we fire a spread of photon torpedoes into their
field. 
PICARD: Must we destroy them to save ourselves? 
DATA: It is unclear what affect a photon torpedo would have on a
two-dimensional beings, sir. 
PICARD: Nevertheless. 
LAFORGE: Well, we wouldn't necessarily have to fire at them. Half a
dozen photon torpedo bursts directly in their path could make them
change course. 
PICARD: Make it so. 
WORF: Torpedoes armed. Fire distribution set. Detonation at seven
kilometres ahead of the cluster. 
RIKER: Data, launch another probe. Patch the monitor through to the
main viewer. 
DATA: Probe has been launched. On screen. 
PICARD: Proceed, Mister Worf. 
WORF: Launching photon torpedoes. Detonation in five seconds. Three,
two, one. 
DATA: There is no change in the graviton field. The torpedoes are
having no effect, sir. 
PICARD: Fire another volley directly into their field, Mister Worf. 
WORF: Launching torpedoes. Detonation in five seconds. Three, two, one.

DATA: Matter-antimatter explosions appear to be ineffective, sir.

[Troi's office]

(Deanna is packing PADDs into a case) 
TROI: Come in. Janet. Oh, I'm sorry, I meant to cancel your appointment
today. Actually, I'm resigning as Ship's Counsellor. 
BROOKS: Why? 
TROI: I think it was fairly clear during your last appointment. It was
obviously non productive. I couldn't sense what you were feeling. 
BROOKS: Deanna, you were right about me. I had to go back and look at
what I was doing, see why I was trying to convince myself and you that
I was a new woman. You made me realise I was doing exactly the same
thing to myself as I was before. Trying to hide from the pain. Maybe
you couldn't sense what I was feeling, but you helped.

