TROI LAFORGE WORF PICARD RIKER BROOKS GUINAN ALLENBY DATA

[Ten Forward]

GUINAN: (sneaking up from behind) More tea? I
didn't mean to startle you. 
TROI: That's alright. I'm getting used to it. 
GUINAN: May I? 
TROI: Sure. 
(Guinan sits with her) 
GUINAN: Are you really getting used to it? 
TROI: No. 
GUINAN: Do you want to talk about it? 
TROI: No. 
GUINAN: Good. I get so tired of people coming in with their problems.
They come in, they want a shoulder to cry on, and generally it turns
out to be mine. 
TROI: You'd make a good counsellor. 
GUINAN: I think so too. So I'm going to talk to Picard about it. 
TROI: About what? You becoming counsellor? 
GUINAN: Well, yes, you're leaving. That means there won't be a
counsellor on board, and I suppose I'm going to have a very long line
at that bar. It would be nice to have a nice office, too. 
TROI: It's more than just letting them cry on your shoulder. It takes
an enormous commitment. 
GUINAN: I can do that. 
TROI: Guinan, people come to you to talk about things they want to
reveal. As ship's counsellor, you have to get them to talk about things
they don't want to reveal. 
GUINAN: I could do that too. 
TROI: What are you? You don't really want to be ship's counsellor. 
GUINAN: What would make you say that? 
TROI: I just know you're not serious. 
GUINAN: Have I given you any indication that I might not serious? 
TROI: Not really, but 
GUINAN: Then how do you know? Are your empathic abilities coming back? 
TROI: No. I suppose it's just instinctive. I get it. You're trying to
make me see that I have other abilities to draw on. Human intuition,
instincts. Guinan, those skills only develop after years of experience.
It's not that easy. 
GUINAN: No one said it was easy. It's much harder than you think. Human
intuition and instinct are not always right, but they do make life
interesting. 
TROI: So I'm discovering. 
[Bridge]

RIKER: Problem, Data? 
DATA: Yes, Commander. Sensors are detecting highly accelerated
interstellar gases. 
RIKER: Suggesting? 
DATA: Uncertain, sir. The phenomenon is within visual range. 
RIKER: On screen. (it's a vague purple thing) Magnify. 
DATA: It appears to be a cosmic string fragment. Only one hundred seven
kilometres long. 
ALLENBY: A cosmic string? 
RIKER: No wider than a proton but with gravitational fields as powerful
as a black hole. 
DATA: The two-dimensional beings seem to be caught in the gravitational
pull of the string. Their course is taking them directly toward it. 
RIKER: And us right along with them.

Captain's log, stardate 44359.5. What began as a
curious inconvenience has turned into a serious threat. At current
speed, the two-dimensional beings and the Enterprise will be drawn into
the cosmic string fragment in seven hours.

[Bridge]

DATA: The entities offer no indication that they
are aware of the string fragment, Captain. Their course and speed
remain constant. 
WORF: Sir, recommend we fire a spread of photon torpedoes into their
field. 
PICARD: Must we destroy them to save ourselves? 
DATA: It is unclear what affect a photon torpedo would have on a
two-dimensional beings, sir. 
PICARD: Nevertheless. 
LAFORGE: Well, we wouldn't necessarily have to fire at them. Half a
dozen photon torpedo bursts directly in their path could make them
change course. 
PICARD: Make it so. 
WORF: Torpedoes armed. Fire distribution set. Detonation at seven
kilometres ahead of the cluster. 
RIKER: Data, launch another probe. Patch the monitor through to the
main viewer. 
DATA: Probe has been launched. On screen. 
PICARD: Proceed, Mister Worf. 
WORF: Launching photon torpedoes. Detonation in five seconds. Three,
two, one. 
DATA: There is no change in the graviton field. The torpedoes are
having no effect, sir. 
PICARD: Fire another volley directly into their field, Mister Worf. 
WORF: Launching torpedoes. Detonation in five seconds. Three, two, one.

DATA: Matter-antimatter explosions appear to be ineffective, sir.

[Troi's office]

(Deanna is packing PADDs into a case) 
TROI: Come in. Janet. Oh, I'm sorry, I meant to cancel your appointment
today. Actually, I'm resigning as Ship's Counsellor. 
BROOKS: Why? 
TROI: I think it was fairly clear during your last appointment. It was
obviously non productive. I couldn't sense what you were feeling. 
BROOKS: Deanna, you were right about me. I had to go back and look at
what I was doing, see why I was trying to convince myself and you that
I was a new woman. You made me realise I was doing exactly the same
thing to myself as I was before. Trying to hide from the pain. Maybe
you couldn't sense what I was feeling, but you helped.

[Ready room]

PICARD: Come. 
TROI: You wanted to see me, Captain? 
PICARD: Yes, Counsellor. Sit down, please. Our situation has become
critical. The cluster remains completely unresponsive. We have not been
able to alter its course toward the cosmic string fragment. 
TROI: How much time do we have? 
PICARD: Less than five hours. Which is why I have called you. 
TROI: Sir? 
PICARD: All that remains is the possibility of communication. There
might be some way that we can warn them of their impending destruction.

TROI: I thought Data had already tried to establish communications
through the universal translator. 
PICARD: He has tried every technical means at our disposal to reach
them. 
TROI: I wish I knew how to help, Captain, but under the circumstances 
PICARD: If there is a psychology to these creatures, we must discover
it. If there is an explanation for their behaviour, we must know what
it is. Even in your current condition, you are the most qualified
person aboard this ship to assist. Data is in Observation attempting to
formulate a strategy. I want you to join him. Deanna, we need you.

Captain's log, supplemental. If our speed and
course remain unchanged, in one hour the Enterprise will be torn apart
by the gravitational forces of the cosmic string fragment.

[Observation lounge]

TROI: Are your signals reaching them? 
DATA: Possibly. However, the beings may perceive them as negligible
noise rather than an attempt at communication. 
TROI: Is there any evidence at all that they're sentient? 
DATA: Negative. The nature of their movement suggests a simple order of
intelligence. 
TROI: I'm sorry, Data. I don't seem to be much help without my empathic
abilities. I just don't know how to draw on my human instinct. 
DATA: As I have no human instinct per se, I cannot advise you,
Counsellor. 
TROI: Right now, I feel as two-dimensional as our friends out there. In
the universe but barely aware of it. Just trying to survive on
instinct. Data, what if they're simply acting instinctively? There are
inherent, inborn forces in every species. What they need, what they
fear. We have to discover what drives this species. 
DATA: I do not believe there is any way we can know for certain,
Counsellor. 
TROI: We can speculate on the available evidence. 
DATA: The only evidence we have at present is the brief interruption in
their movement pattern during our last attempt to break away. 
TROI: Which may suggest some kind of awareness of our presence. 
DATA: Otherwise their course and speed have been constant. 
TROI: On a straight line to the cosmic string. You're convinced the
string's gravitation is pulling them in? 
DATA: Because the cluster is two-dimensional, I do not have enough
direct evidence to support that assumption. However, it is the most
reasonable hypothesis. 
TROI: Why? 
DATA: It is unlikely they would intentionally move toward a destructive
force. 
TROI: Moths fly toward a flame. Horses sometimes run into a burning
barn. Data, don't you see? We've been thinking in three dimensions. We
have to get two-dimensional. 
DATA: Pardon me? 
TROI: Subspace signals, photon torpedoes, nothing's had an impact. It
is reasonable to wonder if a gravitational pull, even as strong as a
cosmic string's, would affect them. 
DATA: Please continue. 
TROI: What if they've chosen a course to the cosmic string? A case of
pure stimulus response, driven by instinct, just like the moth to a
flame. 
[Bridge]

DATA: If Counsellor Troi's supposition is correct,
a replica of the string projected behind the cluster could induce them
to reverse course, disrupting the graviton wake long enough for us to
escape. 
PICARD: How do you simulate a cosmic string? It has the gravitational
force of a hundred stars. 
DATA: I do not suggest simulating the gravitational field of the string
fragment, rather the string's vibration. 
RIKER: Vibration? We're not talking about a violin, Data. 
LAFORGE: No, Data's right. The principle is still the same. A cosmic
string emanates a characteristic set of subspace frequencies as atomic
particles decay along its event horizon. I could use the ship's
parabolic dish to amplify and reflect those frequencies back toward the
cluster. The Enterprise itself would echo the cosmic string. 
PICARD: How much time do we have, Mister Worf? 
WORF: Twenty three minutes, sir. 
PICARD: Make it so. 
(less than twenty three minutes later) 
DATA: Frequency-scan detectors engaged. 
LAFORGE [OC]: Receiving. 
[Engineering]

LAFORGE: Data, we're picking up frequencies across
the entire electromagnetic and lower subspace spectrum. Trying to
isolate. Data, can you focus the reflector field for me? 
DATA [OC]: Stand by. 
