TROI LAFORGE PICARD LAFORGE [OC] RIKER BROOKS CRUSHER DATA
make turned disabled shame wrong passed forward mister talk

[Troi's office]

TROI: Come in. 
RIKER: I don't have a psychology degree, but if you'd like to talk? 
TROI: You know what the worst part of this is? And I've seen it happen
to so many patients. 
RIKER: What? 
TROI: The way other people change. How they start to treat you
differently. They walk on eggshells around you. Sometimes they avoid
you altogether. Sometimes they become overbearing, reach out a helping
hand to the blind woman. 
RIKER: I'm sorry if I 
TROI: I will not be treated that way! 
RIKER: Hey! Imzadi. 
TROI: Oh, please. 
RIKER: Deanna, I've never seen you quite so scared. 
TROI: I'm fine. If I get better, I get better. If I don't, I'll adapt.
Life goes on. 
RIKER: Deanna. 
TROI: I really have to finish this. I have some appointments this
afternoon.

[Engineering]

DATA: Probe launch successful. Telemetry
transmissions are being received. 
LAFORGE: Okay, let's see what we've got. Nothing unusual here. The same
reading as the ship sensors. 
DATA: Expanding analysis parameters. Including Bayesian functions,
broad EM and subspace spectrum polling. 
LAFORGE: No change. 
DATA: I am adding virtual particle trajectories. 
(now the image has things moving in it) 
LAFORGE: Whoa. What is that? 
DATA: Unknown. I am attempting to analyse motion pattern. Results still
inconclusive. 
LAFORGE: Last time I saw anything that looked like that, I was
skin-diving off the coral reefs at Bracas Five.

[Troi's office]

TROI: You said you woke up a new woman this
morning. 
BROOKS: That's how I feel. 
TROI: Tell me about her, this new woman. 
BROOKS: She's not holding anything back any more. 
TROI: She's not? 
BROOKS: I let it all out last night. I cried for two hours. I realised
that I had never accepted the loss of my husband. I worked hard, I kept
busy, I did everything to pretend it never happened. 
TROI: And you feel different now? 
BROOKS: Completely. 
TROI: Can I share something important with you? 
BROOKS: Of course. 
TROI: I've temporarily lost my empathic sense. It's kind of like having
one hand tied behind your back. 
BROOKS: I'm so sorry. Do you want me to come back? 
TROI: No, no, I'm fine. It's just I feel before we continue it's
important you know that. Okay? 
BROOKS: All right. 
TROI: Because I can't tell how you're feeling this morning, but it
seems to me that one night of crying can't make up for months of
denial. 
BROOKS: No. You're wrong. I feel better today than I have in ages.
You're absolutely wrong, Deanna.

[Observation lounge]

DATA: The probe's point of view reveals that the
objects exist entirely in two dimensions, on a single plane. 
LAFORGE: They have length and width, but not height. Virtually flat. 
DATA: That is why the ship's forward sensors did not detect them
initially. We were looking at them along their edge. There was no
surface to read. I will illustrate. 
(the image of Enterprise rotates, and the things are on a line with the
plane of the main saucer) 
PICARD: Are they a lifeform? 
DATA: The movement pattern within the cluster is not a naturally
occurring phenomenon in the Newtonian sense. They appear to be alive. 
RIKER: Can you explain why they're pulling us along with them? 
LAFORGE: Somehow, they're able to polarise the graviton field as they
move about. We're caught in the wake. 
RIKER: How do we get out of it? 
LAFORGE: Best idea for now is to try a controlled overload of the warp
drive. Jump directly to warp six. The laws of a three-dimensional
universe say it should work. Don't know about a two-dimensional
universe though. 
PICARD: Fascinating. So many questions. How can a two-dimensional
entity have access to a three-dimensional universe? And are they aware
of us? Number One, if we can put off the T'lli Betans, I would like to
investigate this further as soon as we're free of the graviton field. 
LAFORGE: It's a shame we can't tell if they're sentient. 
TROI: What do you mean by that? I'm doing the best that I can. 
PICARD: No one suggested otherwise, Counsellor. Mister Data, try to
isolate any signal patterns from the cluster. Perhaps there'll be a
basis for communication. Mister La Forge, we'll attempt your warp jump
as soon as you're prepared. That'll be all. Counsellor 
(but she's already out of the door)

[Sickbay]

CRUSHER: How are you feeling? 
TROI: Beverly, I can't do my job. I'm absolutely lost. You have to do
something. 
CRUSHER: I cross-referenced your scan results with the baseline files
in the computer. Nothing helpful has turned up. And so far the lab work
is inconclusive. 
TROI: Inconclusive. What does that mean? 
CRUSHER: It means there is nothing I can do now. I am still trying. 
TROI: How do you people live like this? 
CRUSHER: We get by pretty well, actually. And so will you, in time. 
TROI: You have no idea. No idea what this is like. How can you know
what it's like to lose something you never had? 
CRUSHER: I don't claim to. 
TROI: And yet you're telling me I'm supposed to get used to it. 
CRUSHER: If our positions were reversed, what would you tell me? 
TROI: If our positions were reversed, I wouldn't have been in here
treating skinned elbows while you were lying passed out on your office
floor. I'd have been there a lot sooner. Perhaps in time to prevent
this from ever happening! 
(Deanna storms off to her own quarters and marches in, fists clenched.
There is a defenceless glass table
expecting to get smashed, but instead she sinks to her knees)

[Ready room]

TROI: I've been working with Ensign Brooks since
the death of her husband. She's
avoided the reality of what happened, denied it to herself, and I
realise I've been doing the same thing about my condition. 
PICARD: That's perfectly understandable. 
TROI: It's time I accept the truth, Captain, and resign as ship's
counsellor. 
PICARD: Resign? 
TROI: I can no longer fulfill my obligations. What other option is
there? 
PICARD: Deanna, I've been fortunate to have access to your Betazoid
abilities. Most starship captains have to be content with a human
counsellor. Empathic awareness is not a requirement of your position. 
TROI: It is for me. 
PICARD: I'm sure that after a while you'll be able to adjust. They say
when one loses a sense, the other senses become stronger to compensate.
A blind man develops better hearing. 
TROI: With all due respect, Captain, you don't know what you're talking
about. That is a common belief with no scientific basis, no doubt
created by normal people who felt uncomfortable around the disabled. I
am disabled, and I'm telling you I cannot perform my duties. 
PICARD: There was a teacher of mine at the Academy who had been
confined to a wheelchair since birth. She was a woman 
TROI: Captain, spare me the inspirational anecdote and just accept my
resignation.

[Troi's quarters]

TROI: Come in. 
(Riker enters) 
TROI: I really would rather be alone right now. 
RIKER: Too bad. 
(he pulls her towards him, and she cries in his arms) 
TROI: Is this how you handle all of your personnel problems? 
RIKER: Sure. You'd be surprised how far a hug goes with Geordi, or
Worf. 
TROI: Will, I don't know what to do. 
RIKER: So you resign? You walk away from all the people who care about
you? 
TROI: I look around me and all I see are surfaces without depth.
Colourless. Hollow. Nothing seems real. 
RIKER: I'm real. 
TROI: No, you're not. You're a projection, with no more substance to me
than a character on the holodeck. 
RIKER: I don't believe that. 
TROI: You have no idea how frightening it is to just be here without
sensing you, without sharing your feelings. 
RIKER: That's it, isn't it? We're on equal footing now. 
TROI: What? 
RIKER: You always had an advantage. A little bit of control of every
situation. That must have been a very safe position to be in. To be
honest, I'd always thought there was something a little too
aristocratic about your Betazoid heritage. As if your human side wasn't
quite good enough for you. 
TROI: That isn't true. 
RIKER: Isn't it? 
LAFORGE [OC]: La Forge to Riker. 
RIKER: Go ahead, Geordi.

