TROI KEIKO DATA [OC] PICARD T'PEL [OC] COMPUTER O'BRIEN T'PEL DATA
appear percent zero appropriate inquiry talks distraught pillow came

[Ready room]

PICARD: Mister Data, based on your analysis, what
is the current Romulan strategy behind the deployment of their ships in
this sector? 
DATA: Their ships are deployed to support a policy of confrontation
designed to test Federation defenses along the Neutral Zone. 
PICARD: Do you predict any change in the near future? 
DATA: I project a ninety percent probability that they will continue to
support that policy. 
PICARD: Is there any indication of a more conciliatory attitude on
their part? 
DATA: No, sir. 
T'PEL: Caution is clearly called for, Captain. However, the mission
must proceed as planned. 
PICARD: Starfleet Command agrees with you, but I would feel better if
you would consent to an escort or 
(one look cuts him off) 
PICARD: Thank you, Mister Data.

[Data's quarters]

DATA: Feline supplement seventy four. 
(he puts the bowl down and a hairy ginger cat eats it) 
DATA: Computer, run fluidic sensor diagnostic. 
(the cat jumps on his lap, and he strokes it) 
COMPUTER: Diagnostic complete. All systems functioning within normal
parameters. 
DATA: Come in. 
O'BRIEN: Am I intruding, Commander? 
DATA: No. Would you care to sit down? 
DATA [OC]: When one of my friends is distraught, I have learnt that the
thoughtful thing to do is to attempt to make him feel more comfortable.

(But O'Brien can't settle) 
DATA: May I offer you some refreshment, Chief? 
O'BRIEN: No, thank you, sir. First of all I'd like to apologise for
this morning in Ten Forward 
DATA: There is no need to apologise. I was not offended. Would you like
a pillow or a more comfortable chair to sit upon? 
O'BRIEN: No, sir. Thank you, sir. 
DATA: Perhaps you would like some music? Brahms? Aurelia? 
O'BRIEN: No, really, sir I'm fine. I came to ask for your help. It's
about Keiko. I'd like you to talk to her. Convince her to go through
with the wedding. 
DATA: Would Counsellor Troi not be a more appropriate choice to speak
with Keiko? 
O'BRIEN: She already has. It didn't help. You've known her longer than
I have. I just thought she might listen to you. She won't even talk to
me 
DATA: I do not know what to say to her. 
O'BRIEN: Just talk with her. Make her see reason. She's going off
half-cocked, not thinking this through. You've worked with her for a
long time. She respects your opinion. 
DATA: Perhaps she has not fully analysed her decision. I will try. 
O'BRIEN: Thank you, sir. I won't forget this. 
DATA [OC]: Commander Maddox, I noted that Keiko was quite calm and
rational when she informed me of her decision this morning. Therefore,
I can predict that she will respond to an objective analysis of the
situation based on the available facts. It is fortunate that she has
not let emotional considerations cloud her judgement. It should make my
task much simpler.

[Arboretum]

KEIKO: What? 
DATA: I believe you made an incorrect analysis of the facts at hand. 
KEIKO: What do you mean? 
DATA: You do not seem happy. 
KEIKO: Well 
DATA: Your decision was based on the assumption that cancelling the
wedding would bring you happiness. This has proved to be incorrect. 
KEIKO: Data, it's not that simple. 
DATA: Since your action did not produce the desired results, the only
advisable solution should be to re-examine your decision making
process, and look for errors. 
KEIKO: I knew what I was doing. It's my decision. 
DATA: That fact is not in dispute. However, you may have acted with
undue haste and in doing so, unintentionally hurt Chief O'Brien's
feelings. 
KEIKO: I did what I had to! Why are you doing this? I thought you were
my friend. 
DATA: I am your friend. 
KEIKO: Then leave me alone. 
DATA: If I have offended. 
KEIKO: Just leave me alone. 
DATA [OC]: It is clear that I need guidance to resolve this situation.
Counsellor Troi's advice should be useful.

[Troi's office]

DATA [OC]: In many ways, Deanna Troi is the friend
that I understand the least. Her life and her duties are predicated on
her understanding and perception of emotions. Since I have none, no
doubt she finds me as much of a mystery as I find her. 
DATA: Chief O'Brien talks to me. Keiko talks to you. Why do they not
talk to each other? 
TROI: That's a good question, Data. I wish I had a good answer for you.
Perhaps when they're ready, they will. 
DATA: Many aspects of this situation are puzzling to me. I have been
studying various texts on the subject of marriage, but I have not found
a suitable guide. 
TROI: A suitable guide for what? 
DATA: In an effort to be helpful, I am attempting to calculate the
variables involved in a successful marriage. 
TROI: Good luck. 
DATA: There are many opinions. On Galvin Five, a marriage is considered
successful only if children are produced within a year of the wedding.
Andorian marriages require groups of four people unless 
TROI: Data, would you like my advice on how to help them? Don't. This
is something they have to work out for themselves. 
DATA: But I am their friend. Should I not stand with them in a time of
difficulty? 
TROI: There are many ways to help a friend, and sometimes the best way
is to leave them alone. 
DATA: Do you believe it to be the right decision for them to marry? 
TROI: I don't know. They're very much in love, but sometimes that isn't
enough. Marriage is an agreement to share who you are with someone
else. To spend your lives together. To grow old together. 
DATA: To grow old together? That is an integral component of marriage? 
TROI: Usually. Why do you ask? 
DATA: Although I am an android, I have not excluded the possibility
that I, too, may someday marry. 
TROI: Data, I had no idea you'd thought about getting married. 
DATA: I believe I have much to offer a potential mate. However, we
cannot grow old together because I will not grow old. 
TROI: Data, you do have a lot to offer. 
T'PEL [OC]: Commander Data, this is Ambassador T'Pel. Please report to
my quarters. 
DATA: Acknowledged.

[T'Pel's quarters]

(T'Pel is pacing when the doorbell chimes) 
T'PEL: Enter. 
(she sits) 
T'PEL: You have priority three clearance aboard the Enterprise? 
DATA: That is correct, Ambassador. 
T'PEL: I require information on this ship's defence and navigational
systems. Access code kappa alpha four six zero one seven zero four. 
DATA: The code is valid. 
T'PEL: What is the field strength of the ship's deflector shields at
maximum output? 
DATA: May I ask the purpose of your request? 
T'PEL: I require the information. 
DATA: I have the same safeguards as the ship's computer. Therefore, I
must report any inquiry regarding restricted information to the
Captain. Your reaction suggests you do not wish the Captain to be
informed of your inquiry. 
T'PEL: I was not interested in the information. I was curious as to
your security safeguards. They appear to be adequate. Cancel the
request. You may leave.

