TROI TPEL COMPUTER NURSE CRUSHER DATA

[Troi's office]

DATA [OC]: In many ways, Deanna Troi is the friend
that I understand the least. Her life and her duties are predicated on
her understanding and perception of emotions. Since I have none, no
doubt she finds me as much of a mystery as I find her. 
DATA: Chief O'Brien talks to me. Keiko talks to you. Why do they not
talk to each other? 
TROI: That's a good question, Data. I wish I had a good answer for you.
Perhaps when they're ready, they will. 
DATA: Many aspects of this situation are puzzling to me. I have been
studying various texts on the subject of marriage, but I have not found
a suitable guide. 
TROI: A suitable guide for what? 
DATA: In an effort to be helpful, I am attempting to calculate the
variables involved in a successful marriage. 
TROI: Good luck. 
DATA: There are many opinions. On Galvin Five, a marriage is considered
successful only if children are produced within a year of the wedding.
Andorian marriages require groups of four people unless 
TROI: Data, would you like my advice on how to help them? Don't. This
is something they have to work out for themselves. 
DATA: But I am their friend. Should I not stand with them in a time of
difficulty? 
TROI: There are many ways to help a friend, and sometimes the best way
is to leave them alone. 
DATA: Do you believe it to be the right decision for them to marry? 
TROI: I don't know. They're very much in love, but sometimes that isn't
enough. Marriage is an agreement to share who you are with someone
else. To spend your lives together. To grow old together. 
DATA: To grow old together? That is an integral component of marriage? 
TROI: Usually. Why do you ask? 
DATA: Although I am an android, I have not excluded the possibility
that I, too, may someday marry. 
TROI: Data, I had no idea you'd thought about getting married. 
DATA: I believe I have much to offer a potential mate. However, we
cannot grow old together because I will not grow old. 
TROI: Data, you do have a lot to offer. 
T'PEL [OC]: Commander Data, this is Ambassador T'Pel. Please report to
my quarters. 
DATA: Acknowledged.

[T'Pel's quarters]

(T'Pel is pacing when the doorbell chimes) 
T'PEL: Enter. 
(she sits) 
T'PEL: You have priority three clearance aboard the Enterprise? 
DATA: That is correct, Ambassador. 
T'PEL: I require information on this ship's defence and navigational
systems. Access code kappa alpha four six zero one seven zero four. 
DATA: The code is valid. 
T'PEL: What is the field strength of the ship's deflector shields at
maximum output? 
DATA: May I ask the purpose of your request? 
T'PEL: I require the information. 
DATA: I have the same safeguards as the ship's computer. Therefore, I
must report any inquiry regarding restricted information to the
Captain. Your reaction suggests you do not wish the Captain to be
informed of your inquiry. 
T'PEL: I was not interested in the information. I was curious as to
your security safeguards. They appear to be adequate. Cancel the
request. You may leave.

[Corridor]

DATA [OC]: Commander Maddox, I have often wished
for the sense that humans call intuition or instinct. Since Vulcans are
incapable of lying, I must accept the Ambassador's explanation as the
truth, but I would still prefer a gut feeling to back up this
conclusion.

[Outside Holodeck]

COMPUTER: Programme Crusher four in progress.

[Holodeck dance studio]

(Parquet floor, windows, potted palms and wall
mirrors. Beverly is wearing tap shoes) 
CRUSHER: Hi, Data. Well what do you think? It is a recreation of the
studio I had my first dance lesson in. 
DATA: It appears to be quite suitable, Doctor. 
CRUSHER: Let's start with something simple. Stomp. Hop. Try it. 
(he does) 
CRUSHER: Again. Good! Good. 
DATA: Am I dancing, Doctor? 
CRUSHER: Not quite. Stop, Data. Now try this. 
DATA: Doctor, perhaps it would be beneficial to show me the final
lesson. 
CRUSHER: Okay. 
(so she goes into a tap routine and he copies her exactly) 
CRUSHER: That's great. Watch. Good. Triples. Watch. Stop, Data. And you
say you've never done this before? Try this. 
(she does advanced steps and he copies her perfectly) 
CRUSHER: Stop, Data. Not bad. (out of breath) Yeah, not bad. 
DATA: Then I have successfully learned to dance? 
CRUSHER: I'd say you've picked up the basics. 
DATA: Thank you, Doctor. I am now prepared to dance at the wedding. 
CRUSHER: Wedding? 
DATA: Keiko's wedding. 
CRUSHER: Data, you never told me this was for the wedding. 
DATA: Is that important? 
CRUSHER: Well yes. They don't do a lot of tap dancing at weddings. 
DATA: Why? 
CRUSHER: Well, Data, because, I don't really know why, Look, why don't
I just teach you a style of dancing that they will do at the wedding?
Computer, run 'Isn't It Romantic'. 
(The slow music starts, and Beverly gets Data into a close ballroom
hold) 
CRUSHER: Compared to what we've just doing, this will be simple. Just
look up and follow me. One, two, ready, and 
(he is useless, no rhythm, and he treads on her toes) 
CRUSHER: No, Data, wait a minute. Ow! No, no, you're just. Ow! Move
slowly. Ow! Ow! Stop music. 
DATA: Sorry, Doctor. 
CRUSHER: I don't understand, Data. You picked up the tap dancing so
quickly. 
DATA: I cannot reproduce your performance if I cannot see your feet. 
CRUSHER: All right, let's try it again. And this time, watch my feet.
Computer, start music. And. 
(This is far better, and less painful) 
CRUSHER: Now, don't just imitate me. You've got to lead. 
DATA: Lead where, Doctor? 
CRUSHER: Indicate to your partner where you want her to step. 
DATA: And how is that accomplished? 
CRUSHER: I'll show you. I'll lead. Now, you'll notice that I don't just
repeat the same pattern over and over. I improvise. Now you lead.
That's good. Now, look up, Data. Look into my eyes. You're holding me
too tight. 
DATA: This is a very complex set of variables to coordinate, Doctor. 
CRUSHER: You are doing fine. Now, smile. Act like you're enjoying
yourself 
NURSE [OC]: Doctor Crusher, please report to Sickbay. 
CRUSHER: Is it Lieutenant Juarez? 
NURSE [OC]: Yes, Doctor. Her contractions are now one minute apart. 
CRUSHER: I'm on my way. Why don't you programme up an artificial dance
partner. And don't be afraid to experiment. 
DATA: I will. Thank you, Doctor. 
DATA: Computer, create dance partner. Female. Begin music.

