PICARD [OC] RIKER T'PEL KEIKO DATA [OC] PICARD COMPUTER O'BRIEN CRUSHER DATA
ambassador okay near computer arboretum objective fine happiness listen

[Crusher's office]

CRUSHER: What? 
DATA: I would like to learn how to dance. 
CRUSHER: Why me? 
DATA: It was in your service record. Awarded first prize tap and jazz
competition, Saint Louis Academy. 
CRUSHER: Okay, okay. 
DATA: Have I said something to upset you? 
CRUSHER: It's just that, that was a long time ago, and I don't want to
be known as the dancing doctor. Again. 
DATA: Then your answer is no. 
CRUSHER: All right. But let's keep this between you and me. 
DATA: Of course, Doctor. 
PICARD [OC]: Commander Data, please report to the Bridge. 
DATA: Acknowledged.

[Bridge]

(T'Pel is with Picard) 
PICARD: Data, I want a tactical projection of possible future Romulan
deployments along the Neutral Zone. Access all Federation records on
the subject and report to my Ready Room. 
DATA: Captain, is there a specific area you wish me to study? 
PICARD: No. Ambassador. Number One, set a course one three zero mark
two four six, warp seven. 
RIKER: That will take us very close to the Neutral Zone, Captain. 
PICARD: I'm aware of that, Number One. Proceed. 
(Picard and T'Pel go back into the Ready room) 
RIKER: Lay in the course. 
DATA [OC]: It is fortunate that I am able to perform my duties without
emotional distractions. If that were not the case, a sudden course
correction toward the Neutral Zone would make me very nervous.

DATA [OC]: Personal Log, supplemental. Commander
Maddox, there are still many dynamics of social interaction which I do
not understand. 
[Ready room]

PICARD: Mister Data, based on your analysis, what
is the current Romulan strategy behind the deployment of their ships in
this sector? 
DATA: Their ships are deployed to support a policy of confrontation
designed to test Federation defenses along the Neutral Zone. 
PICARD: Do you predict any change in the near future? 
DATA: I project a ninety percent probability that they will continue to
support that policy. 
PICARD: Is there any indication of a more conciliatory attitude on
their part? 
DATA: No, sir. 
T'PEL: Caution is clearly called for, Captain. However, the mission
must proceed as planned. 
PICARD: Starfleet Command agrees with you, but I would feel better if
you would consent to an escort or 
(one look cuts him off) 
PICARD: Thank you, Mister Data.

[Data's quarters]

DATA: Feline supplement seventy four. 
(he puts the bowl down and a hairy ginger cat eats it) 
DATA: Computer, run fluidic sensor diagnostic. 
(the cat jumps on his lap, and he strokes it) 
COMPUTER: Diagnostic complete. All systems functioning within normal
parameters. 
DATA: Come in. 
O'BRIEN: Am I intruding, Commander? 
DATA: No. Would you care to sit down? 
DATA [OC]: When one of my friends is distraught, I have learnt that the
thoughtful thing to do is to attempt to make him feel more comfortable.

(But O'Brien can't settle) 
DATA: May I offer you some refreshment, Chief? 
O'BRIEN: No, thank you, sir. First of all I'd like to apologise for
this morning in Ten Forward 
DATA: There is no need to apologise. I was not offended. Would you like
a pillow or a more comfortable chair to sit upon? 
O'BRIEN: No, sir. Thank you, sir. 
DATA: Perhaps you would like some music? Brahms? Aurelia? 
O'BRIEN: No, really, sir I'm fine. I came to ask for your help. It's
about Keiko. I'd like you to talk to her. Convince her to go through
with the wedding. 
DATA: Would Counsellor Troi not be a more appropriate choice to speak
with Keiko? 
O'BRIEN: She already has. It didn't help. You've known her longer than
I have. I just thought she might listen to you. She won't even talk to
me 
DATA: I do not know what to say to her. 
O'BRIEN: Just talk with her. Make her see reason. She's going off
half-cocked, not thinking this through. You've worked with her for a
long time. She respects your opinion. 
DATA: Perhaps she has not fully analysed her decision. I will try. 
O'BRIEN: Thank you, sir. I won't forget this. 
DATA [OC]: Commander Maddox, I noted that Keiko was quite calm and
rational when she informed me of her decision this morning. Therefore,
I can predict that she will respond to an objective analysis of the
situation based on the available facts. It is fortunate that she has
not let emotional considerations cloud her judgement. It should make my
task much simpler.

[Arboretum]

KEIKO: What? 
DATA: I believe you made an incorrect analysis of the facts at hand. 
KEIKO: What do you mean? 
DATA: You do not seem happy. 
KEIKO: Well 
DATA: Your decision was based on the assumption that cancelling the
wedding would bring you happiness. This has proved to be incorrect. 
KEIKO: Data, it's not that simple. 
DATA: Since your action did not produce the desired results, the only
advisable solution should be to re-examine your decision making
process, and look for errors. 
KEIKO: I knew what I was doing. It's my decision. 
DATA: That fact is not in dispute. However, you may have acted with
undue haste and in doing so, unintentionally hurt Chief O'Brien's
feelings. 
KEIKO: I did what I had to! Why are you doing this? I thought you were
my friend. 
DATA: I am your friend. 
KEIKO: Then leave me alone. 
DATA: If I have offended. 
KEIKO: Just leave me alone. 
DATA [OC]: It is clear that I need guidance to resolve this situation.
Counsellor Troi's advice should be useful.

