RIKER LAFORGE WORF PICARD CRUSHER DATA VSAL

[Hairdresser's salon]

(a Bolian hairdresser is dealing with Geordi, but
it's not Mot) 
V'SAL: You don't need a haircut. You were just in here last week. 
LAFORGE: Hey, if you'd done it right the first time I wouldn't be back
here so soon. 
V'SAL: I know you want to look beautiful, but I'm just a barber, not a
miracle worker. 
LAFORGE: Just try to keep my ears on straight today, all right? 
DATA [OC]: Friendly insults and jibes, another form of human speech
that I am attempting to master, in this case with the help of Commander
Geordi La Forge. 
LAFORGE: Hi Data. 
DATA [OC]: I consider Geordi to be my best friend. 
LAFORGE: Here for a trim? 
DATA: My hair does not require trimming, you lunkhead. 
LAFORGE: What? 
DATA: My hair does not require trimming 
LAFORGE: Lunkhead? 
DATA: I am experimenting with friendly jibes and insults. It was not
meant as a serious disparagement. 
LAFORGE: Well, just don't try it on the Captain. 
DATA: No. Geordi, I am still confused by Chief O'Brien's reaction this
morning. 
LAFORGE: Yeah. He was just surprised, Data. He didn't mean to blow up
like that. He knows that Keiko probably doesn't want to call off the
marriage. She's just getting cold feet. 
DATA: Cold feet? Jitters. A nervous reaction to an impending event of
great importance. 
LAFORGE: Right. Don't worry, everything's going to be fine. She'll
change her mind again. 
DATA: She will? 
LAFORGE: Absolutely. 
DATA: So you believe the wedding will still proceed? 
LAFORGE: Trust me, they're going to get married. So you'd better find a
gift.

[Replicator centre]

DATA [OC]: I find Lieutenant Worf to be what is
called a kindred spirit. We were both orphans rescued by Starfleet
officers. In many ways, we are both still outsiders in human society. 
DATA: Are you here to find a wedding gift? 
WORF: Yes. 
DATA: I would appreciate your help in selecting an appropriate item. 
WORF: Of course. I have attended human weddings before. 
(he runs through few pictures and stops at glasses) 
WORF: Hold. 
DATA: This is a traditional gift? 
WORF: Yes, my adoptive parents often give these things at family
weddings. A human custom. 
(he changes the picture to a glass swan) 
WORF: Hold. 
DATA: It is my understanding that the item selected should reflect the
personality of whoever is giving it. This does not remind me of you.
Have you ever been an actual participant in a human wedding? 
WORF: No. 
DATA: You would not consider it to be an honour? 
WORF: An honour, perhaps. But human bonding rituals often involve a
great deal of talking and dancing and crying. 
DATA: Dancing.

[Sickbay]

DATA [OC]: I am rarely in need of Doctor Beverly
Crusher's professional services as my bio-mechanical maintenance
programme is self sufficient. But I often observe as she practices
medicine on others and have learned a great deal about human
interaction from her. 
DATA: Doctor, may I ask a favour of you? 
CRUSHER: Of course, Data. 
DATA: Would you teach me how to dance?

[Crusher's office]

CRUSHER: What? 
DATA: I would like to learn how to dance. 
CRUSHER: Why me? 
DATA: It was in your service record. Awarded first prize tap and jazz
competition, Saint Louis Academy. 
CRUSHER: Okay, okay. 
DATA: Have I said something to upset you? 
CRUSHER: It's just that, that was a long time ago, and I don't want to
be known as the dancing doctor. Again. 
DATA: Then your answer is no. 
CRUSHER: All right. But let's keep this between you and me. 
DATA: Of course, Doctor. 
PICARD [OC]: Commander Data, please report to the Bridge. 
DATA: Acknowledged.

[Bridge]

(T'Pel is with Picard) 
PICARD: Data, I want a tactical projection of possible future Romulan
deployments along the Neutral Zone. Access all Federation records on
the subject and report to my Ready Room. 
DATA: Captain, is there a specific area you wish me to study? 
PICARD: No. Ambassador. Number One, set a course one three zero mark
two four six, warp seven. 
RIKER: That will take us very close to the Neutral Zone, Captain. 
PICARD: I'm aware of that, Number One. Proceed. 
(Picard and T'Pel go back into the Ready room) 
RIKER: Lay in the course. 
DATA [OC]: It is fortunate that I am able to perform my duties without
emotional distractions. If that were not the case, a sudden course
correction toward the Neutral Zone would make me very nervous.

DATA [OC]: Personal Log, supplemental. Commander
Maddox, there are still many dynamics of social interaction which I do
not understand. 
