RIKER T'PEL MENDAK [on viewscreen] WORF DATA [OC] PICARD NURSE [OC] COMPUTER O'BRIEN WORF [OC] HELM DATA CRUSHER O'BRIEN [OC] LAFORGE
humour played starts ll bad logical zero ow discuss

[Outside Holodeck]

COMPUTER: Programme Crusher four in progress.

[Holodeck dance studio]

(Parquet floor, windows, potted palms and wall
mirrors. Beverly is wearing tap shoes) 
CRUSHER: Hi, Data. Well what do you think? It is a recreation of the
studio I had my first dance lesson in. 
DATA: It appears to be quite suitable, Doctor. 
CRUSHER: Let's start with something simple. Stomp. Hop. Try it. 
(he does) 
CRUSHER: Again. Good! Good. 
DATA: Am I dancing, Doctor? 
CRUSHER: Not quite. Stop, Data. Now try this. 
DATA: Doctor, perhaps it would be beneficial to show me the final
lesson. 
CRUSHER: Okay. 
(so she goes into a tap routine and he copies her exactly) 
CRUSHER: That's great. Watch. Good. Triples. Watch. Stop, Data. And you
say you've never done this before? Try this. 
(she does advanced steps and he copies her perfectly) 
CRUSHER: Stop, Data. Not bad. (out of breath) Yeah, not bad. 
DATA: Then I have successfully learned to dance? 
CRUSHER: I'd say you've picked up the basics. 
DATA: Thank you, Doctor. I am now prepared to dance at the wedding. 
CRUSHER: Wedding? 
DATA: Keiko's wedding. 
CRUSHER: Data, you never told me this was for the wedding. 
DATA: Is that important? 
CRUSHER: Well yes. They don't do a lot of tap dancing at weddings. 
DATA: Why? 
CRUSHER: Well, Data, because, I don't really know why, Look, why don't
I just teach you a style of dancing that they will do at the wedding?
Computer, run 'Isn't It Romantic'. 
(The slow music starts, and Beverly gets Data into a close ballroom
hold) 
CRUSHER: Compared to what we've just doing, this will be simple. Just
look up and follow me. One, two, ready, and 
(he is useless, no rhythm, and he treads on her toes) 
CRUSHER: No, Data, wait a minute. Ow! No, no, you're just. Ow! Move
slowly. Ow! Ow! Stop music. 
DATA: Sorry, Doctor. 
CRUSHER: I don't understand, Data. You picked up the tap dancing so
quickly. 
DATA: I cannot reproduce your performance if I cannot see your feet. 
CRUSHER: All right, let's try it again. And this time, watch my feet.
Computer, start music. And. 
(This is far better, and less painful) 
CRUSHER: Now, don't just imitate me. You've got to lead. 
DATA: Lead where, Doctor? 
CRUSHER: Indicate to your partner where you want her to step. 
DATA: And how is that accomplished? 
CRUSHER: I'll show you. I'll lead. Now, you'll notice that I don't just
repeat the same pattern over and over. I improvise. Now you lead.
That's good. Now, look up, Data. Look into my eyes. You're holding me
too tight. 
DATA: This is a very complex set of variables to coordinate, Doctor. 
CRUSHER: You are doing fine. Now, smile. Act like you're enjoying
yourself 
NURSE [OC]: Doctor Crusher, please report to Sickbay. 
CRUSHER: Is it Lieutenant Juarez? 
NURSE [OC]: Yes, Doctor. Her contractions are now one minute apart. 
CRUSHER: I'm on my way. Why don't you programme up an artificial dance
partner. And don't be afraid to experiment. 
DATA: I will. Thank you, Doctor. 
DATA: Computer, create dance partner. Female. Begin music.

[Bridge]

RIKER: And just as the headsman swings his axe, the
blade is about to fall (cannot hear above Data's thoughts) 
DATA [OC]: Commander Riker's easy going manner and sense of humour is
fascinating to me. I believe it to be one reason he is so popular among
the crew. It may also be partly responsible for his success in matters
of love. There may be a correlation between humour and sex. The need
for more research is clearly indicated. 
DATA: Commander. 
RIKER: Picard to the Bridge. All stop. 
HELM: Aye, sir. 
(Picard and T'Pel enter) 
DATA: Sir, we have reached the designated coordinates. 
PICARD: Hold this position. Long range scan. 
DATA: Captain, I am detecting a ship in the Neutral Zone.
Configuration, Romulan warbird. 
PICARD: Yellow alert. Hail the Warbird, Mister Worf. 
WORF: Aye, sir. They are responding. Text only. We are to proceed to
the agreed coordinates. 
PICARD: Set course zero three seven mark zero zero five, warp four.
Take us into the Neutral Zone, Ensign. 
(a little later) 
WORF: Captain, the warbird is holding position. In three minutes we
will be within phaser range. 
PICARD: Red alert. I trust my crew, Ambassador. They will take no
provocative action unless I order them. 
T'PEL: Hold position on these coordinates. 
RIKER: Slow to half impulse. 
T'PEL: Open a channel. 
WORF: Open. 
T'PEL: I am Ambassador T'Pel. 
MENDAK [on viewscreen]: I am Admiral Mendak. 
T'PEL: There is no established protocol for a meeting of this nature.
The logical course is that I transport aboard your ship and begin the
negotiations. 
MENDAK [on viewscreen]: Yes. Captain, I note your defensive systems
have been activated. 
PICARD: As have yours. 
MENDAK [on viewscreen]: It was not meant as an accusation Indeed, I
salute your show of strength. Ambassador, we are honoured by your
presence. You may transport aboard at your convenience. 
T'PEL: The honour is mine. 
(transmission ends) 
T'PEL: Have your Transporter room stand by. I will beam to their ship
with no further delay. 
PICARD: Ambassador, I urge you once more to reconsider. The Enterprise
can accommodate a Romulan delegation without sacrificing our security
or 
T'PEL: Captain Picard, I find your argument illogical. Please carry out
my instructions. 
PICARD: Picard to Chief O'Brien. 
O'BRIEN [OC]: O'Brien here. 
PICARD: Prepare to transport Ambassador T'Pel to the Romulan ship. 
O'BRIEN [OC]: Aye, sir. 
PICARD: Mister Worf, maintain a lock on her signal once she's aboard.
At the first sign of trouble I want to be able to bring her back. 
WORF: Understood. Transporter activated. Captain! 
O'BRIEN [OC]: Transporter emergency! I'm losing her signal! 
WORF: Boosting power to autosequencers. 
DATA: Engaging computer override. 
RIKER: O'Brien, what happened down there? 
O'BRIEN [OC]: I'm losing the pattern. Trying to re establish. I'm
sorry, sir. I wasn't able to retrieve the signal. The Ambassador's
dead.

Second officer's personal log, supplemental. The
risks aboard a starship are accepted by all who serve, but I have never
failed to observe a deep emotional response to the loss of a comrade.
It is at times like this that I greatly miss the ability to share human
feelings. 
[Transporter room]

O'BRIEN: The signal lock wasn't broken, sir. I had
just entered the transfer sequence when the Ambassador's pattern began
to break up. I tried to switch to emergency manual control, but the
pattern deteriorated too quickly and 
DATA: Captain, there is no prior record of this type of accident
occurring aboard a starship. Backup systems and safeguards are designed
to prevent just such an occurrence. 
LAFORGE: I can't find any system flaws in the unit, Captain. The
Engineering status reports were all normal. None of the backups were
activated and the autosequencers were all functioning normally. 
PICARD: Any prior malfunctions on this transporter unit? 
O'BRIEN: No, sir. In fact, we replaced the transition coils only last
week. 
RIKER: Could there have been some kind of interference from the
Romulans? 
O'BRIEN: Nothing that I could see. Their shields were down. There was
no power interruption, no subspace bias. 
PICARD: I want this unit pulled and its systems checked again. I want a
level one diagnostic on all transporters. 
LAFORGE: Yes, sir. 
CRUSHER: Her molecular structure dissipated instantly once the pattern
was lost. There were some organic compounds left on the pad, but there
wasn't enough material to do an autopsy. 
PICARD: To die on a transporter. Hardly a fitting end for one of the
Federation's most honoured diplomats. 
WORF [OC]: Bridge to Captain Picard. Admiral Mendak is hailing. He
wishes to speak with you.

[Bridge]

MENDAK [on viewscreen]: We're still waiting,
Captain. Is there a problem? 
PICARD: There's been an accident. Ambassador T'Pel has been killed in a
transporter malfunction. 
MENDAK [on viewscreen]: What kind of malfunction? 
PICARD: We are still investigating that. As soon as 
MENDAK [on viewscreen]: I should have known the Federation wasn't
serious about this conference. 
PICARD: Admiral, I assure you. The Federation places the highest
priority on this mission and its goal. 
MENDAK [on viewscreen]: Well played, Captain well played. Starfleet
opposes normalisation of relations with the Romulan Empire, and so you
are ordered to create an accident. 
PICARD: You're mistaken. I am ready and willing to discuss the
establishment of full diplomatic relations under the same terms as
Ambassador T'Pel. 
MENDAK [on viewscreen]: A generous offer, since you know we were
willing only to negotiate with T'Pel. I salute you again, Captain. It
was a manoeuvre worthy of a Romulan. I suggest we both leave the
Neutral Zone before there is another accident. 
PICARD: Set course for Federation territory, warp two. Engage. Mister
Data, I want you to take charge of this investigation. Study computer
logs, sensor information everything. I refuse to believe that this was
a simple malfunction. 
DATA: Aye, sir. 
DATA [OC]: Captain Picard was the person who first interested me in the
works of Sir Arthur Conan Doyle. I have subsequently become a great
admirer of the fictional detective Sherlock Holmes and his ability to
solve mysteries by careful examination of the available evidence.

