RIKER OBRIEN LAFORGE WORF PICARD MENDAK CRUSHER DATA

[Transporter room]

O'BRIEN: The signal lock wasn't broken, sir. I had
just entered the transfer sequence when the Ambassador's pattern began
to break up. I tried to switch to emergency manual control, but the
pattern deteriorated too quickly and 
DATA: Captain, there is no prior record of this type of accident
occurring aboard a starship. Backup systems and safeguards are designed
to prevent just such an occurrence. 
LAFORGE: I can't find any system flaws in the unit, Captain. The
Engineering status reports were all normal. None of the backups were
activated and the autosequencers were all functioning normally. 
PICARD: Any prior malfunctions on this transporter unit? 
O'BRIEN: No, sir. In fact, we replaced the transition coils only last
week. 
RIKER: Could there have been some kind of interference from the
Romulans? 
O'BRIEN: Nothing that I could see. Their shields were down. There was
no power interruption, no subspace bias. 
PICARD: I want this unit pulled and its systems checked again. I want a
level one diagnostic on all transporters. 
LAFORGE: Yes, sir. 
CRUSHER: Her molecular structure dissipated instantly once the pattern
was lost. There were some organic compounds left on the pad, but there
wasn't enough material to do an autopsy. 
PICARD: To die on a transporter. Hardly a fitting end for one of the
Federation's most honoured diplomats. 
WORF [OC]: Bridge to Captain Picard. Admiral Mendak is hailing. He
wishes to speak with you.

[Bridge]

MENDAK [on viewscreen]: We're still waiting,
Captain. Is there a problem? 
PICARD: There's been an accident. Ambassador T'Pel has been killed in a
transporter malfunction. 
MENDAK [on viewscreen]: What kind of malfunction? 
PICARD: We are still investigating that. As soon as 
MENDAK [on viewscreen]: I should have known the Federation wasn't
serious about this conference. 
PICARD: Admiral, I assure you. The Federation places the highest
priority on this mission and its goal. 
MENDAK [on viewscreen]: Well played, Captain well played. Starfleet
opposes normalisation of relations with the Romulan Empire, and so you
are ordered to create an accident. 
PICARD: You're mistaken. I am ready and willing to discuss the
establishment of full diplomatic relations under the same terms as
Ambassador T'Pel. 
MENDAK [on viewscreen]: A generous offer, since you know we were
willing only to negotiate with T'Pel. I salute you again, Captain. It
was a manoeuvre worthy of a Romulan. I suggest we both leave the
Neutral Zone before there is another accident. 
PICARD: Set course for Federation territory, warp two. Engage. Mister
Data, I want you to take charge of this investigation. Study computer
logs, sensor information everything. I refuse to believe that this was
a simple malfunction. 
DATA: Aye, sir. 
DATA [OC]: Captain Picard was the person who first interested me in the
works of Sir Arthur Conan Doyle. I have subsequently become a great
admirer of the fictional detective Sherlock Holmes and his ability to
solve mysteries by careful examination of the available evidence.

[Transporter room]

(doing test transports) 
DATA [OC]: I have found Holmes' methodology of deductive reasoning to
be quite useful. One of his adages is that once you have eliminated the
impossible, whatever remains, however improbable, must be the truth. 
[Crusher's office]

CRUSHER: I'm sorry, I don't have time to give you
another lesson right now, Data. 
DATA: That is not my purpose. I would like to examine the remains of
Ambassador T'Pel left on the transporter pad. 
CRUSHER: I'm working on the report right now. 
DATA: Have you compared the genetic code with the Ambassador's last
recorded transporter ID traces? 
CRUSHER: No, that's not standard procedure. Why? 
DATA: I could be chasing an untamed ornithoid without a cause. 
CRUSHER: A wild-goose chase? All right. Computer, access the
transporter ID trace for Ambassador T'Pel. All right, there's the
genetic record of the Ambassador when she beamed aboard the Enterprise.
Now, the breakdown of the organic material found on the transporter pad
should be identical. Mitochondrial structure fits the general
parameters, no change in the nucleotide bases. There's a slight
discrepancy in the base pair sequence. Chemically, these are identical.
However, the organic sample from the transporter is showing numerous
single-bit errors, like replicated material. 
DATA: Can you postulate an explanation for the discrepancy? 
CRUSHER: I'd say the DNA was either mutated by the transporter during
the rematerialisation process 
DATA: A supposition not supported by the transporter records. 
CRUSHER: Or these aren't the remains of the Ambassador.

[Ready room]

DATA: The only abnormality found during my
investigation was a temporary increase in the matter to energy signal
ratio. Due to the circumstances, I decided to investigate the
possibility that a second transporter signal had caused the
fluctuation. Although this was highly improbable, it was the only
remaining theory. 
RIKER: A second transporter signal? From where? 
DATA: From the Devoras. 
LAFORGE: Romulan transporters operate on a similar subspace frequency
to our own. With only minor adjustments, they can be made to simulate
our own transporter carrier wave. 
PICARD: Are you saying they beamed the Ambassador off our own pad? 
DATA: While simultaneously, a small amount of genetically similar
material was left in the Ambassador's place. 
RIKER: To make us believe she had died as a result of the malfunction' 
DATA: Yes, sir. 
PICARD: Mister Worf, where is the Devoras now? 
WORF [OC]: The ship is still in the Neutral Zone on course zero seven
nine mark one two five. Speed, warp two. 
RIKER: Heading for home. 
DATA [OC]: The safest and most logical decision in this situation is to
contact Starfleet and await further instructions. However, based on
past experience, I project only a seventeen percent chance Captain
Picard will choose that alternative. 
PICARD: Red Alert. All hands stand to battle stations.

