RIKER OBRIEN WORF PICARD TPEL MENDAK COMPUTER HELM NURSE CRUSHER DATA

[T'Pel's quarters]

(T'Pel is pacing when the doorbell chimes) 
T'PEL: Enter. 
(she sits) 
T'PEL: You have priority three clearance aboard the Enterprise? 
DATA: That is correct, Ambassador. 
T'PEL: I require information on this ship's defence and navigational
systems. Access code kappa alpha four six zero one seven zero four. 
DATA: The code is valid. 
T'PEL: What is the field strength of the ship's deflector shields at
maximum output? 
DATA: May I ask the purpose of your request? 
T'PEL: I require the information. 
DATA: I have the same safeguards as the ship's computer. Therefore, I
must report any inquiry regarding restricted information to the
Captain. Your reaction suggests you do not wish the Captain to be
informed of your inquiry. 
T'PEL: I was not interested in the information. I was curious as to
your security safeguards. They appear to be adequate. Cancel the
request. You may leave.

[Corridor]

DATA [OC]: Commander Maddox, I have often wished
for the sense that humans call intuition or instinct. Since Vulcans are
incapable of lying, I must accept the Ambassador's explanation as the
truth, but I would still prefer a gut feeling to back up this
conclusion.

[Outside Holodeck]

COMPUTER: Programme Crusher four in progress.

[Holodeck dance studio]

(Parquet floor, windows, potted palms and wall
mirrors. Beverly is wearing tap shoes) 
CRUSHER: Hi, Data. Well what do you think? It is a recreation of the
studio I had my first dance lesson in. 
DATA: It appears to be quite suitable, Doctor. 
CRUSHER: Let's start with something simple. Stomp. Hop. Try it. 
(he does) 
CRUSHER: Again. Good! Good. 
DATA: Am I dancing, Doctor? 
CRUSHER: Not quite. Stop, Data. Now try this. 
DATA: Doctor, perhaps it would be beneficial to show me the final
lesson. 
CRUSHER: Okay. 
(so she goes into a tap routine and he copies her exactly) 
CRUSHER: That's great. Watch. Good. Triples. Watch. Stop, Data. And you
say you've never done this before? Try this. 
(she does advanced steps and he copies her perfectly) 
CRUSHER: Stop, Data. Not bad. (out of breath) Yeah, not bad. 
DATA: Then I have successfully learned to dance? 
CRUSHER: I'd say you've picked up the basics. 
DATA: Thank you, Doctor. I am now prepared to dance at the wedding. 
CRUSHER: Wedding? 
DATA: Keiko's wedding. 
CRUSHER: Data, you never told me this was for the wedding. 
DATA: Is that important? 
CRUSHER: Well yes. They don't do a lot of tap dancing at weddings. 
DATA: Why? 
CRUSHER: Well, Data, because, I don't really know why, Look, why don't
I just teach you a style of dancing that they will do at the wedding?
Computer, run 'Isn't It Romantic'. 
(The slow music starts, and Beverly gets Data into a close ballroom
hold) 
CRUSHER: Compared to what we've just doing, this will be simple. Just
look up and follow me. One, two, ready, and 
(he is useless, no rhythm, and he treads on her toes) 
CRUSHER: No, Data, wait a minute. Ow! No, no, you're just. Ow! Move
slowly. Ow! Ow! Stop music. 
DATA: Sorry, Doctor. 
CRUSHER: I don't understand, Data. You picked up the tap dancing so
quickly. 
DATA: I cannot reproduce your performance if I cannot see your feet. 
CRUSHER: All right, let's try it again. And this time, watch my feet.
Computer, start music. And. 
(This is far better, and less painful) 
CRUSHER: Now, don't just imitate me. You've got to lead. 
DATA: Lead where, Doctor? 
CRUSHER: Indicate to your partner where you want her to step. 
DATA: And how is that accomplished? 
CRUSHER: I'll show you. I'll lead. Now, you'll notice that I don't just
repeat the same pattern over and over. I improvise. Now you lead.
That's good. Now, look up, Data. Look into my eyes. You're holding me
too tight. 
DATA: This is a very complex set of variables to coordinate, Doctor. 
CRUSHER: You are doing fine. Now, smile. Act like you're enjoying
yourself 
NURSE [OC]: Doctor Crusher, please report to Sickbay. 
CRUSHER: Is it Lieutenant Juarez? 
NURSE [OC]: Yes, Doctor. Her contractions are now one minute apart. 
CRUSHER: I'm on my way. Why don't you programme up an artificial dance
partner. And don't be afraid to experiment. 
DATA: I will. Thank you, Doctor. 
DATA: Computer, create dance partner. Female. Begin music.

[Bridge]

RIKER: And just as the headsman swings his axe, the
blade is about to fall (cannot hear above Data's thoughts) 
DATA [OC]: Commander Riker's easy going manner and sense of humour is
fascinating to me. I believe it to be one reason he is so popular among
the crew. It may also be partly responsible for his success in matters
of love. There may be a correlation between humour and sex. The need
for more research is clearly indicated. 
DATA: Commander. 
RIKER: Picard to the Bridge. All stop. 
HELM: Aye, sir. 
(Picard and T'Pel enter) 
DATA: Sir, we have reached the designated coordinates. 
PICARD: Hold this position. Long range scan. 
DATA: Captain, I am detecting a ship in the Neutral Zone.
Configuration, Romulan warbird. 
PICARD: Yellow alert. Hail the Warbird, Mister Worf. 
WORF: Aye, sir. They are responding. Text only. We are to proceed to
the agreed coordinates. 
PICARD: Set course zero three seven mark zero zero five, warp four.
Take us into the Neutral Zone, Ensign. 
(a little later) 
WORF: Captain, the warbird is holding position. In three minutes we
will be within phaser range. 
PICARD: Red alert. I trust my crew, Ambassador. They will take no
provocative action unless I order them. 
T'PEL: Hold position on these coordinates. 
RIKER: Slow to half impulse. 
T'PEL: Open a channel. 
WORF: Open. 
T'PEL: I am Ambassador T'Pel. 
MENDAK [on viewscreen]: I am Admiral Mendak. 
T'PEL: There is no established protocol for a meeting of this nature.
The logical course is that I transport aboard your ship and begin the
negotiations. 
MENDAK [on viewscreen]: Yes. Captain, I note your defensive systems
have been activated. 
PICARD: As have yours. 
MENDAK [on viewscreen]: It was not meant as an accusation Indeed, I
salute your show of strength. Ambassador, we are honoured by your
presence. You may transport aboard at your convenience. 
T'PEL: The honour is mine. 
(transmission ends) 
T'PEL: Have your Transporter room stand by. I will beam to their ship
with no further delay. 
PICARD: Ambassador, I urge you once more to reconsider. The Enterprise
can accommodate a Romulan delegation without sacrificing our security
or 
T'PEL: Captain Picard, I find your argument illogical. Please carry out
my instructions. 
PICARD: Picard to Chief O'Brien. 
O'BRIEN [OC]: O'Brien here. 
PICARD: Prepare to transport Ambassador T'Pel to the Romulan ship. 
O'BRIEN [OC]: Aye, sir. 
PICARD: Mister Worf, maintain a lock on her signal once she's aboard.
At the first sign of trouble I want to be able to bring her back. 
WORF: Understood. Transporter activated. Captain! 
O'BRIEN [OC]: Transporter emergency! I'm losing her signal! 
WORF: Boosting power to autosequencers. 
DATA: Engaging computer override. 
RIKER: O'Brien, what happened down there? 
O'BRIEN [OC]: I'm losing the pattern. Trying to re establish. I'm
sorry, sir. I wasn't able to retrieve the signal. The Ambassador's
dead.

Second officer's personal log, supplemental. The
risks aboard a starship are accepted by all who serve, but I have never
failed to observe a deep emotional response to the loss of a comrade.
It is at times like this that I greatly miss the ability to share human
feelings. 
