RIKER LAFORGE MENDAK [on viewscreen] DATA [OC] PICARD T'PEL [on viewscreen] WORF WORF [OC] CRUSHER DATA KEIKO
identical apologised organic days test carnation battle torpedo channel

[Transporter room]

(doing test transports) 
DATA [OC]: I have found Holmes' methodology of deductive reasoning to
be quite useful. One of his adages is that once you have eliminated the
impossible, whatever remains, however improbable, must be the truth. 
[Crusher's office]

CRUSHER: I'm sorry, I don't have time to give you
another lesson right now, Data. 
DATA: That is not my purpose. I would like to examine the remains of
Ambassador T'Pel left on the transporter pad. 
CRUSHER: I'm working on the report right now. 
DATA: Have you compared the genetic code with the Ambassador's last
recorded transporter ID traces? 
CRUSHER: No, that's not standard procedure. Why? 
DATA: I could be chasing an untamed ornithoid without a cause. 
CRUSHER: A wild-goose chase? All right. Computer, access the
transporter ID trace for Ambassador T'Pel. All right, there's the
genetic record of the Ambassador when she beamed aboard the Enterprise.
Now, the breakdown of the organic material found on the transporter pad
should be identical. Mitochondrial structure fits the general
parameters, no change in the nucleotide bases. There's a slight
discrepancy in the base pair sequence. Chemically, these are identical.
However, the organic sample from the transporter is showing numerous
single-bit errors, like replicated material. 
DATA: Can you postulate an explanation for the discrepancy? 
CRUSHER: I'd say the DNA was either mutated by the transporter during
the rematerialisation process 
DATA: A supposition not supported by the transporter records. 
CRUSHER: Or these aren't the remains of the Ambassador.

[Ready room]

DATA: The only abnormality found during my
investigation was a temporary increase in the matter to energy signal
ratio. Due to the circumstances, I decided to investigate the
possibility that a second transporter signal had caused the
fluctuation. Although this was highly improbable, it was the only
remaining theory. 
RIKER: A second transporter signal? From where? 
DATA: From the Devoras. 
LAFORGE: Romulan transporters operate on a similar subspace frequency
to our own. With only minor adjustments, they can be made to simulate
our own transporter carrier wave. 
PICARD: Are you saying they beamed the Ambassador off our own pad? 
DATA: While simultaneously, a small amount of genetically similar
material was left in the Ambassador's place. 
RIKER: To make us believe she had died as a result of the malfunction' 
DATA: Yes, sir. 
PICARD: Mister Worf, where is the Devoras now? 
WORF [OC]: The ship is still in the Neutral Zone on course zero seven
nine mark one two five. Speed, warp two. 
RIKER: Heading for home. 
DATA [OC]: The safest and most logical decision in this situation is to
contact Starfleet and await further instructions. However, based on
past experience, I project only a seventeen percent chance Captain
Picard will choose that alternative. 
PICARD: Red Alert. All hands stand to battle stations.

[Bridge]

PICARD: Lay in an intercept course for the Romulan
ship. 
RIKER: Shields up. Load all torpedo bays. Stand by phasers. 
PICARD: Warp factor eight. Engage. 
(later) 
PICARD: Open a channel to the Devoras. 
WORF: Aye, sir. No response. 
DATA: The Devoras is dropping out of warp, sir. Their weapon systems
are powering up. 
PICARD: Go to impulse power. 
DATA: Aye, sir. 
WORF: Message coming in, sir. 
PICARD: On screen. 
MENDAK [on viewscreen]: Captain, you agreed to leave the Neutral Zone
without 
PICARD: Admiral Mendak, you have taken our Ambassador captive. 
MENDAK [on viewscreen]: I can assure you there is no one being held
captive aboard this ship. 
PICARD: We know about the transporter malfunction and that you are
holding Ambassador T'Pel. 
WORF: Captain, Romulan warbird decloaking to starboard. 
MENDAK [on viewscreen]: I suggest you leave. Now. 
PICARD: It is my responsibility to protect the lives of Federation
citizens. I will not permit this abduction to succeed. 
MENDAK [on viewscreen]: Captain, you're not going to start an incident
which might 
PICARD: Admiral Mendak, I will take whatever action is necessary to
obtain the return of the Ambassador. 
DATA [OC]: In the game of poker, there is a moment when a player must
decide if an opponent is being deceptive or actually holds a winning
hand. This decision is based not only on the odds, but also on an
appraisal of the man. Is he bluffing or does he have the cards? 
MENDAK [on viewscreen]: Fortunately, Captain, I am not ready to start a
war today. 
(a female Romulan officer steps into view) 
RIKER: T'Pel. 
T'PEL [on viewscreen]: Sub-Commander Selok, actually. 
PICARD: A spy. 
MENDAK [on viewscreen]: A patriot, Captain. She has performed her
service to the Empire with distinction. 
T'PEL [on viewscreen]: Thank you for your help, Captain. 
MENDAK [on viewscreen]: You see now that we are not holding one of your
citizens, and we thank you for returning our sister to us. But my
patience has limits. The game is over. I expect you to leave
peacefully. Now. 
WORF: Captain, long range sensors detect three Romulan warbirds
entering this sector. 
RIKER: Some days you get the bear, and some days the bear gets you. 
PICARD: Reverse course. Take us back to Federation territory, warp six.
Engage. 
[Arboretum]

DATA: Keiko, I need your help. I have offended you
and need to find a way to rectify my mistake. I am not sure what to do.

KEIKO: You haven't offended me. 
DATA: I should not have interfered. It would be best if I apologised. 
KEIKO: It would be best if you got dressed. For the wedding? 
DATA: But 
KEIKO: Come here. I have the most beautiful carnation for the father of
the bride. Now, don't be nervous. 
DATA: I am not nervous. I am confused.

