LAFORGE KEIKO DATA [OC] O'BRIEN TECHNICIAN T'PEL DATA
responses thing day ready forward probably tournaments come pleased

[Keiko's quarters]

KEIKO: Come in. 
DATA: It is time for the wedding rehearsal. 
KEIKO: I know. Data, I've decided not to go through with it. 
DATA: You do not wish to rehearse? 
KEIKO: No, I'm calling off the wedding. 
DATA: May I ask why? 
KEIKO: It's just the right thing to do. 
DATA: Have your feelings for Chief O'Brien changed? 
KEIKO: I'm supposed to be getting married, Data. I should be happy, but
I'm not. I just feel this weight pressing down on me. 
DATA: Will cancelling the wedding make you happy? 
KEIKO: Yes. He'll probably be just as relieved as I am. Data, you
introduced us to each other. You mean a lot to both of us. I would
really
appreciate it if you would tell Miles for me. 
DATA: If you wish.

[Ten Forward]

DATA [OC]: My friend Chief O'Brien often says that
above all else, he wants to make Keiko happy. Since cancelling the
wedding will make her happy, I must conclude the Chief will be pleased
at her decision. 
DATA: I have good news. 
O'BRIEN: Oh? 
DATA: Keiko has made a decision designed to increase her happiness. She
has cancelled the wedding. 
O'BRIEN: She what? Cancelled the wedding? Today? Without even a word?
Of all the childish, selfish, irresponsible things to do! 
(O'Brien storms out) 
LAFORGE: Next time, maybe I should break the good news. 
DATA [OC]: Commander Maddox, it would appear that my programme designed
to predict the emotional responses needs adjustment.

Second Officers personal log, supplemental. This is
the one thousand five hundred fiftieth day since the Enterprise was
commissioned.
Besides the arrival of Ambassador T'Pel, other events occurring today
include four birthdays, two personnel transfers, a celebration of the
Hindu Festival of Lights, two chess tournaments, one secondary school
play, and four promotions. Overall, an ordinary day.

[Transporter room]

TECHNICIAN: The Zhukov is ready for transport, sir.

DATA: Energise. 
DATA: Welcome aboard the Enterprise, Ambassador. 
T'PEL: I would meet with your Captain.

