RIKER LAFORGE WORF DATA [OC] PICARD V'SAL T'PEL DATA
wouldn hairdresser selecting la morning better talking officer spirit

[Turbolift]

DATA [OC]: Sine I am not affected by emotional
considerations, I am closer to being Vulcan than human. However, while
their devotion to logic does have a certain appeal, I find their stark
philosophy to be somewhat limited. 
[Ready room]

PICARD: Come. Ambassador T'Pel. 
T'PEL: I come to serve. 
PICARD: Your service honours us. This is my first officer, Commander
William Riker. 
T'PEL: Leave us, please.

[Bridge]

RIKER: Charming woman. 
DATA [OC]: The tone of Commander Riker's voice makes me suspect that he
is not serious about finding Ambassador T'Pel charming. My experience
suggests that in fact he may mean the exact opposite of what he says.
irony is a form of expression I have not yet been able to master.

[Hairdresser's salon]

(a Bolian hairdresser is dealing with Geordi, but
it's not Mot) 
V'SAL: You don't need a haircut. You were just in here last week. 
LAFORGE: Hey, if you'd done it right the first time I wouldn't be back
here so soon. 
V'SAL: I know you want to look beautiful, but I'm just a barber, not a
miracle worker. 
LAFORGE: Just try to keep my ears on straight today, all right? 
DATA [OC]: Friendly insults and jibes, another form of human speech
that I am attempting to master, in this case with the help of Commander
Geordi La Forge. 
LAFORGE: Hi Data. 
DATA [OC]: I consider Geordi to be my best friend. 
LAFORGE: Here for a trim? 
DATA: My hair does not require trimming, you lunkhead. 
LAFORGE: What? 
DATA: My hair does not require trimming 
LAFORGE: Lunkhead? 
DATA: I am experimenting with friendly jibes and insults. It was not
meant as a serious disparagement. 
LAFORGE: Well, just don't try it on the Captain. 
DATA: No. Geordi, I am still confused by Chief O'Brien's reaction this
morning. 
LAFORGE: Yeah. He was just surprised, Data. He didn't mean to blow up
like that. He knows that Keiko probably doesn't want to call off the
marriage. She's just getting cold feet. 
DATA: Cold feet? Jitters. A nervous reaction to an impending event of
great importance. 
LAFORGE: Right. Don't worry, everything's going to be fine. She'll
change her mind again. 
DATA: She will? 
LAFORGE: Absolutely. 
DATA: So you believe the wedding will still proceed? 
LAFORGE: Trust me, they're going to get married. So you'd better find a
gift.

[Replicator centre]

DATA [OC]: I find Lieutenant Worf to be what is
called a kindred spirit. We were both orphans rescued by Starfleet
officers. In many ways, we are both still outsiders in human society. 
DATA: Are you here to find a wedding gift? 
WORF: Yes. 
DATA: I would appreciate your help in selecting an appropriate item. 
WORF: Of course. I have attended human weddings before. 
(he runs through few pictures and stops at glasses) 
WORF: Hold. 
DATA: This is a traditional gift? 
WORF: Yes, my adoptive parents often give these things at family
weddings. A human custom. 
(he changes the picture to a glass swan) 
WORF: Hold. 
DATA: It is my understanding that the item selected should reflect the
personality of whoever is giving it. This does not remind me of you.
Have you ever been an actual participant in a human wedding? 
WORF: No. 
DATA: You would not consider it to be an honour? 
WORF: An honour, perhaps. But human bonding rituals often involve a
great deal of talking and dancing and crying. 
DATA: Dancing.

