WAITER PICARD DARO O'BRIEN
wouldn guess finest bar setlik phaser drinking hate women

[Transporter room]

O'BRIEN: Captain. 
PICARD: Chief. I wanted to talk to you. 
O'BRIEN: Anything I can do, sir, you know that. 
PICARD: Ben Maxwell. He must be quite a man. 
O'BRIEN: He's a rare one, all right. I count myself lucky, sir. I've
served with the two finest Captains in Starfleet. 
PICARD: From your knowledge of the man, what has gone wrong? 
O'BRIEN: There's a reason for what he's doing. Those Cardassians were
up to something, I'm sure of it. 
PICARD: When his family was killed, how did he take it? 
O'BRIEN: I'd say he took it well. Oh, I know he was broken up inside,
who wouldn't be? But you'd never know it to see him. He never missed a
minute's duty, always had a smile, a joke. 
PICARD: I see. 
O'BRIEN: He would never retaliate out of vengeance, no matter what that
Cardassian says. They're up to something, sir. They're the ones you
should be investigating, not Captain Maxwell. 
PICARD: You don't care for the Cardassians? 
O'BRIEN: I like them fine. It's just, well, I know them. You learn to
watch your back when you're around those people. 
PICARD: Ben Maxwell has just sent more than six hundred of them to
their deaths. 
O'BRIEN: I don't know what to say, sir, but he must have had his
reasons. 
PICARD: I think when one has been angry for a very long time, one gets
used to it. And it becomes comfortable, like old leather. And, finally,
it becomes so familiar that one can't ever remember feeling any other
way. Thank you, Chief. 
[Ten Forward]

(Miles is drinking at the bar) 
DARO: Kanar. 
O'BRIEN: Mind if I join you? 
DARO: Do you want another? And an ale. 
O'BRIEN: Kanar. I never could develop a taste for it. 
DARO: It takes a bit of getting used to. 
O'BRIEN: I wanted to say I owe you an apology. I shouldn't have popped
off like that in the turbolift. 
DARO: I think 
WAITER: Here's your ale, Mister O'Brien. 
DARO: This has been hard on all of us. I know I'll be happy when I'm
back on my own ship. 
O'BRIEN: I guess that's true. I hadn't thought of it like that. I was
on Setlik three with Captain Maxwell the morning after the massacre. We
were too late, of course. Almost everyone was dead. 
DARO: That was a terrible mistake. We were told the outpost was a
launching place for a massive attack against us. 
O'BRIEN: The only people left alive were in an outlying district of the
settlement. I was sent there with a squad to reinforce them.
Cardassians were advancing on us, moving through the streets,
destroying, killing. I was with a group of women and children when two
Cardassian soldiers burst in. I stunned one of them. The other jumped
me. We struggled. One of the women threw me a phaser, and I fired. The
phaser was set at maximum. The man just incinerated, there before my
eyes. I'd never killed anything before. When I was a kid, I'd worry
about swatting a mosquito. It's not you I hate, Cardassian. I hate what
I became because of you.

