OBRIEN KEIKO WORF PICARD MACET DATA

[O'Brien's quarters]

O'BRIEN: There you are. Potato casserole. A dish
fit for kings. 
(Keiko looks doubtful) 
O'BRIEN: (sings) The minstrel boy to the war has gone 
KEIKO: What's that you're singing? 
O'BRIEN: What? Oh, it's just an old song. A bunch of us used to sing it
together on the Rutledge. I hadn't thought about it in years 
KEIKO: What's it about? 
O'BRIEN: Oh, it's about war and glory. (sings) The minstrel boy to the
war has gone. In the ranks of death you will find him. His father's
sword he hath girded on. And his wild harp slung behind him. Captain
Maxwell always liked that song. I guess it's all this business with him
and the Cardassians brought it back to me. You know, sitting with the
staff this morning, I could tell there were people in that room who
still don't like the Cardassians. 
KEIKO: I imagine that's to be expected. 
O'BRIEN: You do? 
KEIKO: Sure. The war lasted a long time. That takes its toll on people.
What are these little dark things? 
O'BRIEN: Capers. But the fighting is over now. Why should anyone still
feel however they feel? 
KEIKO: You fought the Cardassians, didn't you? 
O'BRIEN: Well, there were some skirmishes, when I was with Captain
Maxwell. 
KEIKO: Well, how do you feel about them? 
O'BRIEN: Me? I feel fine. I mean, the war's over now. 
[Bridge]

(a tactical display is on the viewscreen, with ship
designations) 
PICARD: The pursuing ship is the Phoenix. 
MACET: And the other? 
DATA: It appears it be a Cardassian supply ship. 
MACET: How would you know that? 
PICARD: We are able to make that determination. 
MACET: You can read our transponder codes. 
PICARD: The important thing at the moment is that one of your ships may
be in jeopardy. Mister Worf, has there been any answer to our
communication? 
WORF: No, Captain. 
PICARD: Put out a repeating message on all subspace channels, priority
one communiqu. Break off your pursuit immediately. 
WORF: Aye, sir. 
PICARD: Gul Macet, you see we are doing everything in our power to
reach the Phoenix. 
MACET: Yes, and accomplishing nothing, I'm sorry to say. Can you show
me the location of our other ships? 
PICARD: Mister Data. 
MACET: There, you see? We have a warship which could intercept the
Phoenix before it's too late. If you will give us the transponder
frequency. Or are you going to stand there while our ship is destroyed,
Captain? 
PICARD: Mister Worf, has there been any response to our hails? 
WORF: No, Captain. 
PICARD: Very well. Mister Worf, relay the prefix codes of the Phoenix
to the Cardassian warship. 
WORF: Sir, they will be able to dismantle its shields. The Phoenix will
not have a chance. 
PICARD: I cannot allow Maxwell to ambush that supply ship. Mister Worf,
now. 
WORF: Yes, Captain. 
(a brief pause later) 
DATA: Sir, the Cardassian warship is moving on the Phoenix. 
PICARD: Mister Data, overlay weapon ranges of the two ships. 
DATA: The warship is three hundred thousand kilometres from the
Phoenix. It is opening fire. The Phoenix has taken a direct
hit. The Phoenix is beginning evasive manoeuvres. It has positioned
itself outside the weapons range of the opposing ship.
The Phoenix has powered up both phasers and photon torpedoes. The
Phoenix is firing photon torpedoes. 
(and one of the lights on the screen goes out) 
MACET: He has destroyed our warship. 
PICARD: Does the supply ship have any weapons? 
MACET: Very limited. Certainly not enough to defeat a Nebula class
starship. 
DATA: Sir, the Phoenix is firing on the 
(another light goes out) 
MACET: The warship carried a crew of six hundred, the supply ship,
fifty. 
PICARD: Mister Data estimated time to intercept with the Phoenix. 
DATA: At our present speed of warp four, sixteen hours, forty four
minutes. 
PICARD: Ensign, increase to warp nine.

