PICARD MACET DATA WORF OBRIEN

[Bridge]

(a tactical display is on the viewscreen, with ship
designations) 
PICARD: The pursuing ship is the Phoenix. 
MACET: And the other? 
DATA: It appears it be a Cardassian supply ship. 
MACET: How would you know that? 
PICARD: We are able to make that determination. 
MACET: You can read our transponder codes. 
PICARD: The important thing at the moment is that one of your ships may
be in jeopardy. Mister Worf, has there been any answer to our
communication? 
WORF: No, Captain. 
PICARD: Put out a repeating message on all subspace channels, priority
one communiqu. Break off your pursuit immediately. 
WORF: Aye, sir. 
PICARD: Gul Macet, you see we are doing everything in our power to
reach the Phoenix. 
MACET: Yes, and accomplishing nothing, I'm sorry to say. Can you show
me the location of our other ships? 
PICARD: Mister Data. 
MACET: There, you see? We have a warship which could intercept the
Phoenix before it's too late. If you will give us the transponder
frequency. Or are you going to stand there while our ship is destroyed,
Captain? 
PICARD: Mister Worf, has there been any response to our hails? 
WORF: No, Captain. 
PICARD: Very well. Mister Worf, relay the prefix codes of the Phoenix
to the Cardassian warship. 
WORF: Sir, they will be able to dismantle its shields. The Phoenix will
not have a chance. 
PICARD: I cannot allow Maxwell to ambush that supply ship. Mister Worf,
now. 
WORF: Yes, Captain. 
(a brief pause later) 
DATA: Sir, the Cardassian warship is moving on the Phoenix. 
PICARD: Mister Data, overlay weapon ranges of the two ships. 
DATA: The warship is three hundred thousand kilometres from the
Phoenix. It is opening fire. The Phoenix has taken a direct
hit. The Phoenix is beginning evasive manoeuvres. It has positioned
itself outside the weapons range of the opposing ship.
The Phoenix has powered up both phasers and photon torpedoes. The
Phoenix is firing photon torpedoes. 
(and one of the lights on the screen goes out) 
MACET: He has destroyed our warship. 
PICARD: Does the supply ship have any weapons? 
MACET: Very limited. Certainly not enough to defeat a Nebula class
starship. 
DATA: Sir, the Phoenix is firing on the 
(another light goes out) 
MACET: The warship carried a crew of six hundred, the supply ship,
fifty. 
PICARD: Mister Data estimated time to intercept with the Phoenix. 
DATA: At our present speed of warp four, sixteen hours, forty four
minutes. 
PICARD: Ensign, increase to warp nine.

[Transporter room]

O'BRIEN: Captain. 
PICARD: Chief. I wanted to talk to you. 
O'BRIEN: Anything I can do, sir, you know that. 
PICARD: Ben Maxwell. He must be quite a man. 
O'BRIEN: He's a rare one, all right. I count myself lucky, sir. I've
served with the two finest Captains in Starfleet. 
PICARD: From your knowledge of the man, what has gone wrong? 
O'BRIEN: There's a reason for what he's doing. Those Cardassians were
up to something, I'm sure of it. 
PICARD: When his family was killed, how did he take it? 
O'BRIEN: I'd say he took it well. Oh, I know he was broken up inside,
who wouldn't be? But you'd never know it to see him. He never missed a
minute's duty, always had a smile, a joke. 
PICARD: I see. 
O'BRIEN: He would never retaliate out of vengeance, no matter what that
Cardassian says. They're up to something, sir. They're the ones you
should be investigating, not Captain Maxwell. 
PICARD: You don't care for the Cardassians? 
O'BRIEN: I like them fine. It's just, well, I know them. You learn to
watch your back when you're around those people. 
PICARD: Ben Maxwell has just sent more than six hundred of them to
their deaths. 
O'BRIEN: I don't know what to say, sir, but he must have had his
reasons. 
PICARD: I think when one has been angry for a very long time, one gets
used to it. And it becomes comfortable, like old leather. And, finally,
it becomes so familiar that one can't ever remember feeling any other
way. Thank you, Chief. 
