OBRIEN WORF KEIKO PICARD MACET DATA

[Bridge]

DATA: Captain, the Phoenix in Sector twenty one
five oh five. 
PICARD: Ensign, set a course, warp six. Mister Worf, send a message by
subspace. Tell them to prepare for a rendezvous. 
WORF: Yes, Captain. 
MACET: Captain, a suggestion. 
PICARD: Yes? 
MACET: We have a number of ships in sector twenty one five oh five. If
you will give us more precise coordinates and the ship's coded
transponder frequency, we would be able to intercept Maxwell far more
quickly than you. 
PICARD: I'm sure that's true. However, given the circumstances, I would
prefer to make the initial contact myself. I'm sure you would, if the
situation were reversed. 
MACET: Captain, time is crucial. You have a dangerous man out there
with a huge arsenal at his command. If he is intent on revenge against
my people he must be stopped before he can do more damage. 
PICARD: Captain, so far we have an isolated incident. If I can reach
him first, then perhaps diplomacy can prevail.
But if one of your ships decides to retaliate, there is a danger we
could lose control of the situation. 
MACET: Then you will not give us the means to find his precise
location? 
PICARD: No. I won't.

[O'Brien's quarters]

O'BRIEN: There you are. Potato casserole. A dish
fit for kings. 
(Keiko looks doubtful) 
O'BRIEN: (sings) The minstrel boy to the war has gone 
KEIKO: What's that you're singing? 
O'BRIEN: What? Oh, it's just an old song. A bunch of us used to sing it
together on the Rutledge. I hadn't thought about it in years 
KEIKO: What's it about? 
O'BRIEN: Oh, it's about war and glory. (sings) The minstrel boy to the
war has gone. In the ranks of death you will find him. His father's
sword he hath girded on. And his wild harp slung behind him. Captain
Maxwell always liked that song. I guess it's all this business with him
and the Cardassians brought it back to me. You know, sitting with the
staff this morning, I could tell there were people in that room who
still don't like the Cardassians. 
KEIKO: I imagine that's to be expected. 
O'BRIEN: You do? 
KEIKO: Sure. The war lasted a long time. That takes its toll on people.
What are these little dark things? 
O'BRIEN: Capers. But the fighting is over now. Why should anyone still
feel however they feel? 
KEIKO: You fought the Cardassians, didn't you? 
O'BRIEN: Well, there were some skirmishes, when I was with Captain
Maxwell. 
KEIKO: Well, how do you feel about them? 
O'BRIEN: Me? I feel fine. I mean, the war's over now. 
