RIKER OBRIEN LAFORGE WORF PICARD MACET

[Transporter room]

(Three Cardassians arrive and look around) 
RIKER: Welcome to the Enterprise. I'm First Officer William Riker,
Counsellor Deanna Troi. 
MACET: I am Gul Macet. My aides, Glinn Daro, Glinn Telle. 
RIKER: This is our Transporter Chief, Mister O'Brien. Shall we? 
(Troi gives O'Brien a concerned look) 
Captain's Log, supplemental. We have entered
Cardassian territory, and are proceeding on our quest to locate the
Phoenix.

[Observation lounge]

(the Cardassians have removed their 'helmets') 
LAFORGE: And with long range sensors, we've been scanning a radius of
ten light years. We can effectively scan one sector in a day. 
RIKER: We're scanning Sector twenty one five oh five now. There's still
no sign of the Phoenix. 
MACET: In fact, you have no assurance that the ship is still in Sector
twenty one five oh five. 
RIKER: In fact, we have no idea where it is. We thought the last known
coordinates were a reasonably good place to start. 
MACET: Captain Picard, you can understand that we are sceptical. Do you
expect us to believe that you are using every means at your disposal to
track down one of your own? 
PICARD: Of course you are concerned, Gul Macet. It is precisely because
of that fact that I have included you in every aspect of our effort.
You're present with my staff. You're hearing reports as I hear them,
nothing edited, nothing withheld. 
MACET: Very well. 
PICARD: Transporter Chief O'Brien, has served with Benjamin Maxwell. I
thought that he might be able to provide some insights.
Mister O'Brien, I understand that Captain Maxwell lost his family
during a raid on an outpost. 
O'BRIEN: More like sabotage, sir. It was on Setlik Three. A squad of
Cardassian militia made a sneak raid on an outpost, wiped out close to
a hundred civilians. 
MACET: Then it's revenge he's after. 
O'BRIEN: That's not what I meant. 
MACET: Maxwell is taking retribution for his own loss. 
O'BRIEN: Captain Maxwell would never 
PICARD: Gentlemen, please, let's not indulge in speculation. Can we
confine our discussion to facts? Now, Mister O'Brien 
WORF [OC]: Worf to Captain Picard. 
PICARD: Go ahead, Mister Worf. 
WORF [OC]: Long range sensors have located the Phoenix. 
PICARD: Gul Macet, will you join me on the Bridge? 
(O'Brien and the aides leave by a different door. note - Daro is pale,
Telle is dark)

