RIKER MACET [on viewscreen] WORF PICARD LAFORGE [OC] DATA
easily ones cuellar engineering luc alaimo action casualties secondary

[Bridge]

WORF: Cardassian ship preparing to fire again, sir.

PICARD: Increase power to forward shields. Hail them again, Mister
Worf. 
RIKER: What the hell is he doing? Damage report. 
WORF: Minor damage to secondary hull before we put our shields up, sir.
No casualties. Structural integrity intact. 
LAFORGE [OC]: Engineering to Bridge. Starboard power coupling is down. 
PICARD: Evasive action, delta sequence. Ready phasers, Mister Worf. 
DATA: Delta evasion plan initiated. 
PICARD: Limit targets to engines and shields. 
WORF: Aye, sir. Ready. 
PICARD: Fire. 
DATA: Direct hit, sir. Moderate damage to their aft shield generators. 
PICARD: Continue phaser fire. 
DATA: Multiple hits, sir. Power failure in forward shields. 
WORF: The Cardassian ship is standing down, sir. 
PICARD: Let's see if they'll answer our hail now, Mister Worf. 
WORF: Frequency open. 
PICARD: This is Captain Jean-Luc Picard of the Federation Starship
Enterprise. 
MACET [on viewscreen]: I am Gul Macet of the Cardassian ship Trager. 
PICARD: Why have you fired on us? 
MACET [on viewscreen]: A curious question, Captain. In war, one attacks
one's enemies. 
PICARD: There is a treaty between our peoples. 
MACET [on viewscreen]: Perhaps that fact was unknown to the Federation
starship which destroyed our space station in the Cuellar System two
days ago. 
PICARD: A Federation starship? 
MACET [on viewscreen]: Attacked an unarmed science station. They had
barely enough time to send an emergency signal before they were
incinerated. 
PICARD: Gul Macet the Federation and the Cardassians have struggled too
hard for peace to abandon it so easily. 
MACET [on viewscreen]: We are not the ones who abandoned it, Captain. 
PICARD: Let me talk to my superiors, find out what's behind this. Give
me one hour. The alternative is for us to continue firing at one other,
and in such a contest, you would be at a disadvantage. 
MACET [on viewscreen]: Very well. One hour. 
(note - you may thing you know what a Cardassian looks like. You're not
entirely correct, yet. This version has a bit of facial hair, a
weird headpiece that comes down to the nose and less neck, but is still
played by Marc Alaimo)

