RIKER LAFORGE PICARD MACET DARO O'BRIEN WORF [OC]
sir door lost light able leave gentlemen known orders

[Observation lounge]

(the Cardassians have removed their 'helmets') 
LAFORGE: And with long range sensors, we've been scanning a radius of
ten light years. We can effectively scan one sector in a day. 
RIKER: We're scanning Sector twenty one five oh five now. There's still
no sign of the Phoenix. 
MACET: In fact, you have no assurance that the ship is still in Sector
twenty one five oh five. 
RIKER: In fact, we have no idea where it is. We thought the last known
coordinates were a reasonably good place to start. 
MACET: Captain Picard, you can understand that we are sceptical. Do you
expect us to believe that you are using every means at your disposal to
track down one of your own? 
PICARD: Of course you are concerned, Gul Macet. It is precisely because
of that fact that I have included you in every aspect of our effort.
You're present with my staff. You're hearing reports as I hear them,
nothing edited, nothing withheld. 
MACET: Very well. 
PICARD: Transporter Chief O'Brien, has served with Benjamin Maxwell. I
thought that he might be able to provide some insights.
Mister O'Brien, I understand that Captain Maxwell lost his family
during a raid on an outpost. 
O'BRIEN: More like sabotage, sir. It was on Setlik Three. A squad of
Cardassian militia made a sneak raid on an outpost, wiped out close to
a hundred civilians. 
MACET: Then it's revenge he's after. 
O'BRIEN: That's not what I meant. 
MACET: Maxwell is taking retribution for his own loss. 
O'BRIEN: Captain Maxwell would never 
PICARD: Gentlemen, please, let's not indulge in speculation. Can we
confine our discussion to facts? Now, Mister O'Brien 
WORF [OC]: Worf to Captain Picard. 
PICARD: Go ahead, Mister Worf. 
WORF [OC]: Long range sensors have located the Phoenix. 
PICARD: Gul Macet, will you join me on the Bridge? 
(O'Brien and the aides leave by a different door. note - Daro is pale,
Telle is dark)

[Turbolift]

O'BRIEN: Deck six. 
DARO: Deck ten. Your Captain is most impressive. 
O'BRIEN: Yes, he is. 
DARO: Chief O'Brien, our Transporting system is still operating with
active feed pattern buffers. I would like to talk with you about your
technology. 
O'BRIEN: I'll have to get Commander La Forge's approval on that. 
DARO: I understand. In the meantime, we're going to your Ten Forward.
Will you join us? 
O'BRIEN: If my Commander tells me to discuss the Transporter with you,
I will. If Captain Picard orders me to tell you everything I know about
Ben Maxwell, I will. But who I choose to spend my free time with,
that's my business.

