OBRIEN WORF WAITER PICARD TELLE MACET DARO

[Ten Forward]

(Miles is drinking at the bar) 
DARO: Kanar. 
O'BRIEN: Mind if I join you? 
DARO: Do you want another? And an ale. 
O'BRIEN: Kanar. I never could develop a taste for it. 
DARO: It takes a bit of getting used to. 
O'BRIEN: I wanted to say I owe you an apology. I shouldn't have popped
off like that in the turbolift. 
DARO: I think 
WAITER: Here's your ale, Mister O'Brien. 
DARO: This has been hard on all of us. I know I'll be happy when I'm
back on my own ship. 
O'BRIEN: I guess that's true. I hadn't thought of it like that. I was
on Setlik three with Captain Maxwell the morning after the massacre. We
were too late, of course. Almost everyone was dead. 
DARO: That was a terrible mistake. We were told the outpost was a
launching place for a massive attack against us. 
O'BRIEN: The only people left alive were in an outlying district of the
settlement. I was sent there with a squad to reinforce them.
Cardassians were advancing on us, moving through the streets,
destroying, killing. I was with a group of women and children when two
Cardassian soldiers burst in. I stunned one of them. The other jumped
me. We struggled. One of the women threw me a phaser, and I fired. The
phaser was set at maximum. The man just incinerated, there before my
eyes. I'd never killed anything before. When I was a kid, I'd worry
about swatting a mosquito. It's not you I hate, Cardassian. I hate what
I became because of you.

[Bridge]

(Worf hauls Telle onto the Bridge) 
TELLE: I will protest this, Klingon! 
PICARD: Lieutenant? 
WORF: He was found at a computer station on deck thirty five,
attempting to access information on our weapon systems. 
TELLE: A lie, Gul Macet. I was studying the terminal interface systems.
They're more efficient than ours. I have no idea what was in the files.

MACET: What business did you have going near one of their computers? 
TELLE: But, Gul Macet, I meant nothing. There was no harm done. 
MACET: Go to your quarters. You are confined there for the duration of
this expedition. 
TELLE: As you wish, sir. 
PICARD: Mister Worf, please accompany him. 
WORF: Gladly, Captain. 
(Worf and Telle leave) 
MACET: Captain, may we speak in private? 
PICARD: You have the Bridge, Number One.

