RIKER OBRIEN WORF PICARD ENSIGN MACET MAXWELL DATA

[Ready room]

RIKER: Captain Jean-Luc Picard. Captain Benjamin
Maxwell. 
PICARD: That'll be all, Commander. 
(Riker leaves) 
PICARD: Captain. 
MAXWELL: A pleasure, Captain. 
PICARD: Please, sit down. 
MAXWELL: You must think I've gone mad. 
PICARD: The thought had occurred. 
MAXWELL: Picard, I have to tell you I was grateful when I realised it
was you Starfleet sent after me. Somebody who knows what it's really
like out here. 
PICARD: I know of nothing out here that could possibly justify what you
have done. 
MAXWELL: Then listen to this. The Cardassians are arming again. That
so-called science station? Military supply port. 
PICARD: How do you know this? 
MAXWELL: Information comes my way. 
PICARD: From whom? Where is your documentation? 
MAXWELL: I know what they're doing. I can smell it. There's no good
reason for a science station in the Cuellar System, but it's a hell of
a strategic site for a military transport station. A jumping-off point
into three Federation sectors. They're
running supply ships back and forth and nobody's going to tell me it's
for scientific research. 
PICARD: But whatever circumstances you encountered, why didn't you
notify Starfleet? 
MAXWELL: And wait six months while the bureaucrats sit around reading
reports, trying to figure out what to do? They don't know what's going
on out here. But you should, Picard. You know what it's like to be
under fire. 
PICARD: You weren't under fire. 
MAXWELL: Lives were at stake. 
PICARD: Whose lives? 
MAXWELL: We had to act now. 
PICARD: Why? 
MAXWELL: It smells musty in here. Like a bureaucrat's office. 
PICARD: You have killed nearly seven hundred people and you have taken
us to the brink of war. 
MAXWELL: I have prevented war, or at the very least delayed it a good
long time. The peace treaty was a ruse, to give them breathing room,
time to regroup. 
PICARD: And so all alone you decided to dispose of the treaty. 
MAXWELL: I took the initiative. I did what had to be done. 
PICARD: What had to be done? For whom? Why does a man with a long and
brilliant service abandon the fundamental principles that he has
believed in, even fought for, all his life? I believe it is because of
what they did to your wife and your children. 
MAXWELL: Not true. Not true. 
PICARD: To avenge their deaths. 
MAXWELL: You're a fool, Picard. History will look at you and say this
man was a fool. 
PICARD: I'll accept the judgement of history. 
MAXWELL: When it becomes clear what the Cardassians have done, I will
be vindicated. 
PICARD: What the Cardassians have or have not done is irrelevant. 
MAXWELL: Irrelevant? Come with me. Find one of their supply ships and
we'll see how irrelevant it is. 
PICARD: We're not going after any more Cardassian ships. You're going
to return to your bridge and set a course for Starbase two one one. The
Phoenix and the Enterprise will return to Federation space together.
Those are Starfleet's orders. I will permit you
the dignity of retaining your command during the voyage. The only
alternative is to put you in the brig and to tow your ship back to
starbase in disgrace. 
MAXWELL: I will return to my ship. 
PICARD: You understand your orders? 
MAXWELL: Yes, Captain. 
PICARD: Mister Worf, report to my Ready room. My guest is departing. 
WORF [OC]: Aye, sir.

Captain's log, supplemental. With the Phoenix in
close formation, we are proceeding directly to Starbase two one one.

[Bridge]

PICARD: Mister Data, how long until we clear
Cardassian space? 
DATA: At our present speed, three hours, twenty minutes, sir. 
PICARD: Mister Worf, send a message to Admiral Haden at Starfleet.
Inform him of our projected time of arrival. 
WORF: Aye, sir. 
DATA: Captain, the Phoenix has changed course. 
MACET: What is he doing? 
PICARD: Ensign, change course to pursue. Mister Worf, will you hail
Captain Maxwell? 
WORF: No response, sir. 
RIKER: Data, project his new course. 
DATA: Sir, the Phoenix is heading directly for a Cardassian vessel
point one two light years from our location. 
MACET: He'll attack that ship just as he did the others. 
PICARD: Continue the hail, Mister Worf. Priority one message. Do you
know what that ship might be? 
MACET: I imagine it's a supply ship, headed for the research station in
the Kelrabi system. 
WORF: The Phoenix still does not respond, sir. 
PICARD: Ensign, warp eight. Overtake him. 
DATA: Captain, the Phoenix has accelerated to warp nine. We will not be
able to reach him before he intercepts the Cardassian ship. 
PICARD: Ensign, warp nine. 
ENSIGN: Aye, sir. 
PICARD: Mister Worf, arm phasers. Continue the hail. 
WORF: Aye, sir. 
RIKER: Captain, Chief O'Brien was Maxwell's Tactical officer. 
PICARD: Get him up here. 
(a short time later, O'Brien enters) 
DATA: Sir, the Phoenix has dropped out of warp. They have reached the
Cardassian vessel. 
RIKER: Slow to impulse. 
WORF: Vessels are within visual range. 
PICARD: On screen. 
RIKER: Has the Phoenix activated its weapon systems? 
DATA: Negative, sir. Their phaser banks are not armed. 
RIKER: What about the Cardassians? 
DATA: Our sensors are unable to determine status of the Cardassian
defensive systems. Their ship is running with a high powered subspace
field. 
PICARD: Mister O'Brien, your former Commander, a Federation Captain, is
about to place me in the position of firing on his ship. I need your
knowledge of the man. How he thinks, what he's capable of doing. 
O'BRIEN: Aye, sir. 
WORF: Sir, Captain Maxwell is hailing us. 
PICARD: On screen. 
MAXWELL [on viewscreen]: All right, Picard. You need proof? You've got
it now. 
PICARD: Captain Maxwell, you have disobeyed a direct order. 
MAXWELL [on viewscreen]: Board the ship, you'll see that everything
I've been saying is true. 
PICARD: The Cardassian vessel will not be boarded. You will transport
yourself aboard the Enterprise 
MAXWELL [on viewscreen]: Picard, if you don't board that ship, I'll
destroy it. 
PICARD: And I will use whatever force is necessary to prevent you from
taking that action, Captain. 
(transmission ends) 
O'BRIEN: Sir, Captain Maxwell, if he feels his back is to the wall,
he'll strike. 
DATA: Captain, the Phoenix is transferring power to its shields. 
WORF: They're arming phasers and loading forward torpedo bays. 
PICARD: Red alert. It seems you were right, Mister O'Brien. Ready
phasers, load torpedoes. 
WORF: Phasers armed. Loading forward and aft torpedo bays. 
O'BRIEN: Sir, let me beam over. Try to talk to him. We served together
a long time. When you've been through what we have, you tend to get
inside someone. He might listen. 
RIKER: He'd never drop his shields and allow you to transport on board.

O'BRIEN: The Phoenix is using a high energy sensor system. It cycles
every five point five minutes. Between cycles there's a window of a
fiftieth of a second. Trust me, I can get through. 
PICARD: Make it so.

