ARDRA RIKER DATA CREWMAN [OC] PICARD
bemused worf prove maybe title society live sucker check

[Bridge]

ARDRA: Your chair offers a lovely view of my
planet, Picard. Come, sit with me. 
PICARD: Either leave my Bridge or I will remove you by force. 
ARDRA: By force? You disappoint me. You didn't strike me as that sort,
Picard, But by all means, try. 
PICARD: Mister Worf. 
(Worf is knocked back by a force field. Ardra gets up and strokes
Picard's hand) 
ARDRA: I was really hoping you'd try it yourself. 
PICARD: Transporter room three, lock on to the intruder and transport
her to the planet surface. 
CREWMAN [OC]: Aye, sir. 
(Ardra is beamed away) 
PICARD: Ensign, put up the shields until further notice. 
ARDRA: (in uniform) Yes, sir, Captain. Whatever you say. 
RIKER: We are not impressed by your magic tricks. 
ARDRA: I pity you. We live in a universe of magic, which evidently you
cannot see. Ah, my pale friend has returned. Have you finished
examining the contract? 
DATA: I have, sir. 
PICARD: Report, Mister Data. 
DATA: The contract agrees to deliver the people of Ventax Two into the
personal servitude of Ardra after one thousand years of peace. I have
compared the terms to the body of laws which govern the planet. The
language of the agreement is correct in every detail, sir. 
ARDRA: Such speed and accuracy. You're much too talented to be human. 
DATA: I am an android. 
ARDRA: Android. Of course. How wonderful. An unexpected bonus. 
RIKER: Bonus? 
ARDRA: Yes. When the contract came to term, I gained clear title to the
planet, anything on the surface, in the air or in orbit. So you see,
the Enterprise belongs to me now as well. 
DATA: I'm afraid the contract could be interpreted in that way, sir. 
(The bemused helmsman returns) 
Captain's log, supplemental. Although I consider
this woman's claim upon my ship to be an empty threat, it has further
inspired my determination to expose her for the fraud she is.

[Ready room]

PICARD: Come. 
DATA: You wished to see me, sir? 
PICARD: Yes, Mister Data. A wise man once said, there is a sucker born
every minute. 
DATA: Barnum, sir. PT. 
PICARD: I've been examining the dynamics of what used to be called the
con game. Quite fascinating. Worthy of your study, Data. 
DATA: Sir, do you believe Ardra is, to use the vernacular, a con
artist? 
PICARD: Yes, I do, Data. And I believe it is our job to out-con the con
artist. 
DATA: Sir, I must point out that the Ventaxians did have one thousand
years of peace and tranquility as promised by Ardra. 
PICARD: We can only speculate what occurred on that planet a thousand
years ago. Maybe a Ventaxian leader saw the destruction of his society
at hand and he conceived this Contract of Ardra to motivate change. Or
maybe there was an Ardra of some sort who is the basis of this
mythology. Who knows? The point is that somehow a fundamental theology
was created which transformed this society, but in the process of
change, created this latent fear which has been passed down through
generations. Data, from your own experience of performing Ebenezer
Scrooge, you're aware how fear can be a very powerful motivator. 
DATA: Indeed, sir. In the story, the spirits used fear to motivate
Scrooge to reform his character. 
PICARD: And in the hands of a con artist, fear can be used to motivate
obedience, capitulation, the exploitation of innocent people. And that
is what I believe has happened here. I intend to prove that. I need to
find a loophole, some way of challenging the validity of this contract.

DATA: Sir, the language of the contract seems carefully chosen to avoid
any loopholes. 
PICARD: Check it again, Mister Data, and check every Ventaxian legal
precedent for the last one thousand years. We'll talk again in the
morning. 
DATA: Aye, sir, 
