TROI WORF CLARK PICARD RIKER JARED DATA

[Bridge]

CLARK: Jared, you must secure the release of my
people. I can't believe you would allow this. 
JARED [on viewscreen]: Howard, my friend, you know how I abhor all acts
of violence, but events are out of my control. 
PICARD: I'm Captain Jean-Luc Picard. Is there nothing you can do? 
JARED [on viewscreen]: As the hour of Ardra's return approaches, fear
has overwhelmed my people. It has been a thousand years. The prophecies
have come true. 
PICARD: Prophecies? 
CLARK: Ardra's arrival was supposed to be heralded by the shaking of
the cities. Now there has been a series of geological tremors on the
planet. Minor quakes, nothing extraordinary. 
PICARD: Poorly timed. 
JARED [on viewscreen]: There is more. For several nights there have
been visions of Ardra. Again, just as the contract said would occur
before her return. 
PICARD: Visions? Do you mean dreams? 
JARED [on viewscreen]: No. She has appeared. I myself have seen her. 
PICARD: Jared, tell your people, if the hostages are released, I am
prepared to offer Federation assistance should this, this Ardra return.

JARED: I am afraid it will not matter. They know your weapons are
useless against her, Captain. I will make inquiries concerning the
hostages. The innocent should not suffer from our sins. But I can make
no promises. 
[Observation lounge]

TROI: This situation is deteriorating, Captain. The
people are approaching levels of anxiety that could lead to suicide. 
PICARD: Mister Data, what do we know about this Ardra? 
DATA: She is a cornerstone of Ventaxian theology. It seems that Ardra
came to Ventax Two and promised one thousand years of peace and
prosperity, for a price. Upon her return, she would enslave the entire
population. In Ventaxian culture, it is considered bad luck to speak
her name out loud. CLARK: There are ancient scrolls concerning Ardra
that are stored in the Athenaeum
vaults. Scholars study them. They have been of little public interest
until recently 
PICARD: I think I should meet with this Acost Jared. He's still our
best hope for the release of the hostages. 
RIKER: I'll arrange to have him transported on board. 
PICARD: No. I'm going down to the planet myself. 
WORF: Sir, you run the risk of being taken as an additional hostage 
PICARD: Mister Worf, you and Mister Data will accompany me. Mister
O'Brien can keep a lock on our communicators. He can pull us out if
necessary. 
WORF: Yes, sir. 
PICARD: Counsellor, I want you to come too. 
