ARDRA TROI CLARK WORF PICARD RIKER CREWMAN [OC] CRUSHER DATA LAFORGE
observation field tectonic noticed belongs produce low transport flair

[Observation lounge]

RIKER: Could she be another refugee from the Q
continuum? 
CRUSHER: For that matter, could she be Q? 
PICARD: Q would never bother with contracts. 
TROI: Or economic forecasts. 
PICARD: I noticed that too, Counsellor. I had the distinct impression
of in the presence of a flim-flam artist. 
WORF: But her powers? 
PICARD: Her powers are, at the best, unclear. Think about it, Mister
Worf. Transporter technology can make things appear and disappear. The
illusion that she can transform herself into a Klingon creature could
be created
by holographic projection. 
CLARK: And creating a minor tremor could be the result of a low
frequency tractor beam projected against the tectonic plates. 
PICARD: We are capable of recreating all of these events. It's just
that she dresses them up and she delivers them with more dramatic
flair. 
CRUSHER: Like a magician. 
PICARD: Exactly. 
TROI: She has an incredibly focused mind. It was virtually impossible
to sense any deception. Or anything else, for that matter. 
LAFORGE: The best magicians will never let you see what's up their
sleeve, Counsellor. 
RIKER: She must be tapping into some sort of power source to produce
these effects. She's not hiding that up her sleeve. 
PICARD: Number One, I want you and Mister Worf to run high resolution
scans of this star system. Look for a ship, a base of operations,
anything large enough to generate that power. Mister La Forge,
accompany Doctor Clark back to the science station. See if you can
trace the origin of these tremors. 
[Bridge]

ARDRA: Your chair offers a lovely view of my
planet, Picard. Come, sit with me. 
PICARD: Either leave my Bridge or I will remove you by force. 
ARDRA: By force? You disappoint me. You didn't strike me as that sort,
Picard, But by all means, try. 
PICARD: Mister Worf. 
(Worf is knocked back by a force field. Ardra gets up and strokes
Picard's hand) 
ARDRA: I was really hoping you'd try it yourself. 
PICARD: Transporter room three, lock on to the intruder and transport
her to the planet surface. 
CREWMAN [OC]: Aye, sir. 
(Ardra is beamed away) 
PICARD: Ensign, put up the shields until further notice. 
ARDRA: (in uniform) Yes, sir, Captain. Whatever you say. 
RIKER: We are not impressed by your magic tricks. 
ARDRA: I pity you. We live in a universe of magic, which evidently you
cannot see. Ah, my pale friend has returned. Have you finished
examining the contract? 
DATA: I have, sir. 
PICARD: Report, Mister Data. 
DATA: The contract agrees to deliver the people of Ventax Two into the
personal servitude of Ardra after one thousand years of peace. I have
compared the terms to the body of laws which govern the planet. The
language of the agreement is correct in every detail, sir. 
ARDRA: Such speed and accuracy. You're much too talented to be human. 
DATA: I am an android. 
ARDRA: Android. Of course. How wonderful. An unexpected bonus. 
RIKER: Bonus? 
ARDRA: Yes. When the contract came to term, I gained clear title to the
planet, anything on the surface, in the air or in orbit. So you see,
the Enterprise belongs to me now as well. 
DATA: I'm afraid the contract could be interpreted in that way, sir. 
(The bemused helmsman returns) 
Captain's log, supplemental. Although I consider
this woman's claim upon my ship to be an empty threat, it has further
inspired my determination to expose her for the fraud she is.

