ARDRA TROI CLARK WORF PICARD RIKER JARED CRUSHER CLARK [OC] LAFORGE
sure return capable review tectonic tapping low tremor ll

[Vault]

(lots of dust and dribbly candles) 
JARED: The scrolls of Ardra, Captain. 
ARDRA: A long-winded description of a very simple business arrangement.
I did away with their wars, famine and economic ruin, and provided them
a thousand years of paradise. My terms were clearly stated. They went
into this with their eyes open. I'm sure you'll find everything is in
order. 
PICARD: You won't mind if I don't take your word for it? Jared, with
your permission, I'd like Mister Data will review these scrolls
thoroughly. 
JARED: It is no longer my decision, Captain. 
ARDRA: I have intrigued you, haven't I, Picard? 
PICARD: I am only here to secure the release of the Federation
hostages. 
ARDRA: Hostages? Is this true? 
JARED: Yes, Ardra. Panic gripped the people as the time of your return
grew closer. 
ARDRA: Yes, I do have that effect on people. See that the hostages are
released. Now. 
JARED: Immediately. 
ARDRA: Let us not cloud this with bit players, Picard. You will not
leave because you find me irresistible. 
(she vanishes) 
PICARD: Enterprise, advise Doctor Clark that the hostages are being
released. 
CLARK [OC]: This is Clark. You did it, Captain. Thank goodness. 
PICARD: Goodness had nothing to do with it. Three to beam up. Mister
Data will remain on the surface. Data, I want a complete report on the
contents of these documents. I refuse to abandon this planet to that
woman. Energise.

[Observation lounge]

RIKER: Could she be another refugee from the Q
continuum? 
CRUSHER: For that matter, could she be Q? 
PICARD: Q would never bother with contracts. 
TROI: Or economic forecasts. 
PICARD: I noticed that too, Counsellor. I had the distinct impression
of in the presence of a flim-flam artist. 
WORF: But her powers? 
PICARD: Her powers are, at the best, unclear. Think about it, Mister
Worf. Transporter technology can make things appear and disappear. The
illusion that she can transform herself into a Klingon creature could
be created
by holographic projection. 
CLARK: And creating a minor tremor could be the result of a low
frequency tractor beam projected against the tectonic plates. 
PICARD: We are capable of recreating all of these events. It's just
that she dresses them up and she delivers them with more dramatic
flair. 
CRUSHER: Like a magician. 
PICARD: Exactly. 
TROI: She has an incredibly focused mind. It was virtually impossible
to sense any deception. Or anything else, for that matter. 
LAFORGE: The best magicians will never let you see what's up their
sleeve, Counsellor. 
RIKER: She must be tapping into some sort of power source to produce
these effects. She's not hiding that up her sleeve. 
PICARD: Number One, I want you and Mister Worf to run high resolution
scans of this star system. Look for a ship, a base of operations,
anything large enough to generate that power. Mister La Forge,
accompany Doctor Clark back to the science station. See if you can
trace the origin of these tremors. 
