ARDRA TROI WORF PICARD FEK'LHR JARED DATA CLARK [OC]
die decision burn players doubt names bit property forceful

[Athenaeum]

(outside. buildings burn and people run) 
JARED: Captain Picard, you shouldn't have come. Your life is in danger
here. 
PICARD: You must calm your people. There is no reason for panic. 
JARED: No reason? 
PICARD: If the tremors have frightened people, leading to this hysteria
over Ardra, let us reassure them. 
DATA: We have scanned the tectonic stress patterns of your planet's
crust. There is no evidence that the quakes pose any kind of threat. 
JARED: No, no, no, the threat is from Ardra. You cannot understand. 
PICARD: If you can at least help us locate our people. 
(the building shakes) 
JARED: She is here. 
PICARD: Nonsense. It is only 
(Then a woman appears) 
ARDRA: Time's up. I'm disappointed. I expected my tenants to take
better care of my property. 
JARED: Ardra, most powerful one, I am Jared, Leader of Ventax Two. I
take responsibility for all that displeases you. Please, do not punish
my people. 
ARDRA: Punish? Who said anything about punishing? I merely expect your
end of our contract to be upheld. 
JARED: Thank you, Ardra. 
ARDRA: And don't talk like some ancient prophet around me, with thees
and thous and most powerful ones. It was appealing for a few centuries,
but I bore easily. And stop cowering. When I want you on your knees,
I'll let you know. (to Picard) Much better. a fine example for the
others. Who would you be? 
PICARD: I am Captain Jean-Luc Picard of the Federation Starship
Enterprise. 
ARDRA: Keep up the good work. Now, the first thing we'll need is an
accounting of all you've been accumulating for me. (a scroll appears in
her hand) This form will provide guidelines for a full census of the
population, with emphasis on productivity and economic forecasts. 
PICARD: Who are you? 
ARDRA: My, you are forceful, aren't you? Good. I like my men to be
forceful. At least at the start. 
PICARD: If your intent is to intimidate, you are not succeeding. 
ARDRA: That's all right. I like a challenge. 
TROI: An entire planet has been terrorised because of the suggestion
that you're going to enslave the population. 
ARDRA: Well, it's true. Of course, I wouldn't put it so
melodramatically. It's just a standard contract with an unusually long
term. 
DATA: So you do purport to be the mythic figure Ardra? 
ARDRA: I have many names, my pale friend. I'm Mendora in the Berussian
Cluster. Torak to the Drellians. The Klingons call me Fek'lhr. 
WORF: You are not Fek'lhr. 
(she transforms into a drooling monster) 
FEK'LHR: Ah, but I am I am the Guardian of Gre'thor. Where the
dishonoured go when they die. 
(then back to a woman) 
ARDRA: But here on Ventax Two, I am called Ardra. The same Ardra who
negotiated a contract with these people ten centuries ago today. Oh,
you doubt me. A non-believer. Really, Jean-Luc Picard of the Federation
Starship Enterprise, no doubt you have travelled the galaxy,
encountered a diverse universe of creatures. Is there no room for the
likes of me? 
PICARD: I have encountered many who more credibly could be called the
devil than you. 
ARDRA: The devil! Now there's one I haven't heard in a long time. 
PICARD: You claim you visited this planet a thousand years ago and
negotiated a contract? 
ARDRA: That's correct. 
PICARD: I would like to see that contract.

[Vault]

(lots of dust and dribbly candles) 
JARED: The scrolls of Ardra, Captain. 
ARDRA: A long-winded description of a very simple business arrangement.
I did away with their wars, famine and economic ruin, and provided them
a thousand years of paradise. My terms were clearly stated. They went
into this with their eyes open. I'm sure you'll find everything is in
order. 
PICARD: You won't mind if I don't take your word for it? Jared, with
your permission, I'd like Mister Data will review these scrolls
thoroughly. 
JARED: It is no longer my decision, Captain. 
ARDRA: I have intrigued you, haven't I, Picard? 
PICARD: I am only here to secure the release of the Federation
hostages. 
ARDRA: Hostages? Is this true? 
JARED: Yes, Ardra. Panic gripped the people as the time of your return
grew closer. 
ARDRA: Yes, I do have that effect on people. See that the hostages are
released. Now. 
JARED: Immediately. 
ARDRA: Let us not cloud this with bit players, Picard. You will not
leave because you find me irresistible. 
(she vanishes) 
PICARD: Enterprise, advise Doctor Clark that the hostages are being
released. 
CLARK [OC]: This is Clark. You did it, Captain. Thank goodness. 
PICARD: Goodness had nothing to do with it. Three to beam up. Mister
Data will remain on the surface. Data, I want a complete report on the
contents of these documents. I refuse to abandon this planet to that
woman. Energise.

