ARDRA RIKER DEVIL LAFORGE CLARK PICARD WORF JARED DATA

[Science station]

PICARD: Ardra somehow transported me here. Will you
beam me directly to my quarters. 
WORF [OC]: Aye, sir. We're locked on to you. 
[Bridge]

WORF: Transporter is malfunctioning, Captain. 
[Science station]

WORF [OC]: Some sort of interference. Checking. 
PICARD: Just have Mister Data fetch me in a shuttle. And have him bring
along a uniform. 
[Bridge]

WORF: Did you say uniform? 
PICARD [OC]: Yes, I did. 
WORF: Aye, sir.

[Shuttlecraft]

PICARD: Mister La Forge and Doctor Clark have made
no headway. Commander Riker and Lieutenant Worf have picked nothing up
anything on their scans. 
DATA: Sir, I believe I have found an obscure precedent in Ventaxian law
which may be of interest. 
PICARD: Yes? 
DATA: The case involves a contract dispute over services rendered by a
Klingon craftsman on the construction of a Ventaxian home. Because the
dispute involved an alien culture, the parties decided that arbitration
rather than the courts, should resolve the issue. Both sides agreed to
choose an arbiter. It is the only known case involving an alien
claimant. 
PICARD: That's exactly what I needed. Well done, Data. 
DATA: Shuttlecraft One to Enterprise. Prepare for docking sequence 
RIKER [OC]: Proceed, Shuttle One. 
(and then the Enterprise vanishes) 
PICARD: Enterprise. Enterprise, do you read me? Enterprise, come in.

[Science station]

DATA: I cannot locate the Enterprise anywhere
within one light year of the planet, sir. 
PICARD: I don't believe Ardra is capable of transporting the Enterprise
a light year away. Keep hailing them, Mister Data. Repeat on all
frequencies. 
LAFORGE: Hey, I think we've found something here. There's a sudden jump
in Z-particle readings just about the time the Enterprise disappeared. 
PICARD: Where did it originate? 
CLARK: It was too brief to pinpoint. 
LAFORGE: But it could suggest a hidden power source. 
PICARD: Gentlemen, we need to find that source if we are to defeat this
woman. 
LAFORGE: Well, if you can get her to perform a few more magic tricks
like that one, we just might be able to track it down. 
(Ardra appears) 
ARDRA: So, I trust you have a bit more respect for me now. 
PICARD: What have you done with my ship? 
ARDRA: I've done nothing with your ship. My ship is safely in my
possession. 
PICARD: I do not recognise your claim on the Enterprise. Nor on this
world, for that matter. In accordance with Ventaxian legal precedent, I
call for an arbitration. 
ARDRA: An arbitration? There's nothing here to arbitrate. 
PICARD: Oh, but there is. You're a fraud, madame, and I intend to prove
that you could not have affected the changes that took place on this
planet. 
ARDRA: Do you not believe what you see with your own eyes? Your ship is
gone, Captain. 
PICARD: An illusion. Magicians have been making things of all sorts
disappear for ages. 
ARDRA: You underestimate me. But then, most people do, until it's too
late. 
PICARD: If you are who you say you are, then you have nothing to lose. 
ARDRA: I also have nothing to gain. I already have possession of this
planet and your ship. 
PICARD: I am prepared to offer an added incentive. If you win, I'll
take you to the ruins of Ligillium. 
ARDRA: The Zaterl Emerald? You know where it is? 
PICARD: Yes, I do. 
ARDRA: Oh, you are too clever. But I have enough jewels. If you wish
this foolish arbitration, I will choose my own prize. 
PICARD: And what would that be? 
ARDRA: You. By all rights, your body is already mine, but I want more.
I want your heart, your mind, your soul, and I want you to give them to
me without resistance, of your own free will. So, do you still wish to
pursue this most dangerous game? 
PICARD: I agree to your terms. 
ARDRA: Oh, Picard, I will enjoy you morning, noon and night. 
PICARD: But we must agree to an arbiter. 
ARDRA: Very well. I choose Mister Data. Any objections? 
PICARD: But Mister Data is a member of my crew. 
ARDRA: Of my crew. And he's an android. He is incapable of deceit or
bias. He has no feelings to get in the way of his judgment. 
DATA: Ardra, before he responds, may I have a word in private with
Captain Picard? 
(she nods, and they cross the room) 
DATA: Sir, I request you reject me as arbitrator. 
PICARD: Why? 
DATA: Ardra is right. If I am chosen, I will perform my duties without
bias or sentiment. I cannot guarantee I will deliver a verdict in your
favour. 
PICARD: Data, where else on this planet can I find someone she cannot
intimidate? 
DATA: Sir, I will have to follow the rules of conduct for a Ventaxian
jurist. 
PICARD: I understand. You'll make a fine judge. 
[Athenaeum]

JARED: A thousand years ago our planet was dying.
Overcrowded and dangerous city states warred unceasingly with each
other. The air and water were polluted with industrial waste and there
was a constant threat of starvation and epidemic. 
ARDRA: And then what happened? 
JARED: And then you came. 
PICARD: Objection. There is no conclusive evidence that this woman ever
visited the planet a thousand years ago. 
ARDRA: I suppose you want a thousand year old witness? 
PICARD: That would be acceptable. 
ARDRA: Jared. In the contract, does it specify how you would know me
when I return? 
JARED: Yes by the date. 
ARDRA: Anything else? 
JARED: by the shaking of the cities, and by the visions.
ARDRA: And all of these occurred on schedule? 
JARED: Yes. 
ARDRA: Thank you. Your honour, I submit that I have established my
identity as stated by the contract. 
DATA: Captain Picard, my interpretation of Ventaxian law suggests under
these circumstances, this is acceptable. Your objection is overruled. 
PICARD: But, your honour! 
DATA: Sir, I have ruled. Please sit down. You may proceed. 
ARDRA: Thank you, your Honour. Now, when I first set foot on Ventax
Two, what did I offer your people? 
JARED: According to the scrolls, you offered us a thousand years of
peace and prosperity, if we would promise to surrender ourselves to you
at the end of the term. 
ARDRA: Now why do you think they would strike such a bargain? 
JARED: We had nothing to lose. There was no hope in sight. 
ARDRA: Until I came along. 
PICARD: Objection! 
ARDRA: I withdraw the observation. No further questions. 
PICARD: Your Honour, nothing in this testament proves that Ardra had
the power to affect the lives of the Ventaxians. My opponent has failed
to prove her case and I move that her claim be summarily dismissed. 
DATA: I find no cause to invalidate the contract at this time. The
arbitration will continue. 
ARDRA: Your Honour, Captain Picard as a new visitor to my planet has
been a consistent doubter of my abilities. I would like to ask him a
few questions, if I may. 
DATA: It is highly irregular to question the opposing advocate, but I
see no reason to deny it. Proceed. 
ARDRA: Please don't take any offence at these questions, you know how
fond I am of you. 
PICARD: Objection. 
DATA: Sustained. The advocate will refrain from expressing personal
affections for her opponent. 
ARDRA: You do not believe my powers are real, do you. 
PICARD: No, I don't. 
ARDRA: Then, sir, may I ask you to explain this. 
(the ground shakes) 
DATA: You are out of order. 
ARDRA: Or this? 
(Picard vanishes) 
DATA: The advocate will refrain from making her opponent disappear. 
(Picard returns) 
ARDRA: Or this? 
(he's big, red, and has goat's horns) 
DEVIL: Can you explain it, Picard? 
DATA: Any more disruptions and I will rule you in contempt of court. Is
that understood? 
ARDRA: I am sorry, your Honour, but can you explain it, Picard? Yes or
no. 
PICARD: No. 
ARDRA: I rest my case, your Honour.

