PICARD JARED JARED [on viewscreen] CLARK RIKER [OC]
arrival devil achieved sold acts contract state cities make

[Ready room]

CLARK: The people in Ventax Two live in an agrarian
society. At least, they do now. 
PICARD: What do you mean, now? 
CLARK: It's an interesting anthropological question. One we were
studying before the trouble began. In the distant past, the Ventaxian
culture had achieved an extremely advanced scientific level, but a
millennium ago they turned their backs on technology. 
PICARD: They reverted to a simpler existence? 
CLARK: And remained that way for centuries. First contact was made by a
Klingon expedition seventy years ago. Since then, the new technology
has been available to the Ventaxians. They simply are not interested in
it. Virtually no social problems to be found on this planet, In fact, I
would have described their society as idyllic until 
PICARD: Until what, Doctor? 
CLARK: It's hard to believe. Several years ago, Acost Jared, the
Ventaxian head of state, began to grow increasingly obsessed with the
legend of Ardra. With each passing day, he grew more anxious, and he
talked about little else. Ardra is coming back. Ardra will be here
soon. We must all leave before Ardra returns. 
PICARD: And who is this Ardra? 
CLARK: For all intents and purposes, the devil. Captain, these people
actually believe they've sold their souls to the devil. 
RIKER [OC]: Riker to Captain Picard. 
PICARD: Have you located the science team, Number One? 
RIKER [OC]: Evidently they're being held hostage. 
CLARK: Hostage? 
RIKER [OC]: There's a Ventaxian leader on the viewscreen, name of Acost
Jared. 
PICARD: Doctor.

[Bridge]

CLARK: Jared, you must secure the release of my
people. I can't believe you would allow this. 
JARED [on viewscreen]: Howard, my friend, you know how I abhor all acts
of violence, but events are out of my control. 
PICARD: I'm Captain Jean-Luc Picard. Is there nothing you can do? 
JARED [on viewscreen]: As the hour of Ardra's return approaches, fear
has overwhelmed my people. It has been a thousand years. The prophecies
have come true. 
PICARD: Prophecies? 
CLARK: Ardra's arrival was supposed to be heralded by the shaking of
the cities. Now there has been a series of geological tremors on the
planet. Minor quakes, nothing extraordinary. 
PICARD: Poorly timed. 
JARED [on viewscreen]: There is more. For several nights there have
been visions of Ardra. Again, just as the contract said would occur
before her return. 
PICARD: Visions? Do you mean dreams? 
JARED [on viewscreen]: No. She has appeared. I myself have seen her. 
PICARD: Jared, tell your people, if the hostages are released, I am
prepared to offer Federation assistance should this, this Ardra return.

JARED: I am afraid it will not matter. They know your weapons are
useless against her, Captain. I will make inquiries concerning the
hostages. The innocent should not suffer from our sins. But I can make
no promises. 
