PICARD [OC] RIKER LAFORGE WORF PICARD O'BRIEN CRUSHER DATA ALYSSA
enters person sickbay conjectured matter isn truth frank previous

[Ready room]

PICARD: Come. 
(Crusher enters with her modules) 
CRUSHER: I have something of a minor mystery on my hands. 
PICARD: A minor mystery?. That seems to be a recurring phrase these
days. Oh, Diomedian scarlet moss. I didn't know you were an
enthnobotanist. 
CRUSHER: It's a hobby. 
PICARD: You've got a good crop here. As I recall, it's not easy to
cultivate. 
CRUSHER: That's just it. I started these spores right before we were
all knocked unconscious by the wormhole. You said we were
unconscious for thirty seconds? 
PICARD: Correct. 
CRUSHER: Then why do these show a full day's growth? 
PICARD: Perhaps you've got some sort of fast growth strain. 
CRUSHER: Each of these incubators was set with spores from completely
different sources in the Diomedian system. I have a dozen more in the
lab. Perhaps something extraordinary happened to one of them, but not
to all of them. 
PICARD: Doctor, we were not unconscious for a full day. Everything on
board indicates that we were out for thirty seconds. The ship's
chronometer, the computer, everything, Doctor, including Commander
Data. 
CRUSHER: Jean-Luc, I'm telling you this is over twenty four hours of
growth. 
Captain's log, supplemental. Commander Data
continues to maintain that we were unconscious for only thirty seconds,
despite
Doctor Crusher's evidence to the contrary.

[Observation lounge]

DATA: Captain, I have a hypothesis. The
twenty-second century physicist Pell Underhill conjectured that a major
disruption in time continuity could be compensated for by trillions of
counter reactions. That effect may have allowed
Doctor Crusher's mosses to arrive at the other side of the worm hole
with the unanticipated growth. 
LAFORGE: Underhill was talking about energy. 
DATA: True. Nevertheless, it is possible that the phenomenon could
occur in matter at much higher levels of organisation, given the proper
conditions. 
PICARD: Thank you, Data. An intriguing hypothesis. Well, perhaps we've
got a tempest in a test tube, after all. 
CRUSHER: Captain. 
PICARD: Data, I promised Mister Nelson that you would assist him with
the sensor diagnostic. You'll find him hard at work on deck thirty six.

DATA: As you wish, Captain. 
(Data leaves) 
PICARD: Do you believe him? I want a frank answer, Commander. 
LAFORGE: Not for a second. I'm amazed that he even proposed it. 
WORF: What are you suggesting, Captain? 
PICARD: I'm not sure, Mister Worf. I have never known Data to tell a
lie, and yet. 
CRUSHER: If we never went through that wormhole, then what happened to
us during that day? 
LAFORGE: If we were out for a whole day, why didn't our beards grow? 
RIKER: Whatever it was it seems something Data doesn't want to tell us
about. 
PICARD: It could be that whatever caused this situation also affected
Data. And it could be that he's telling the truth and that this is all
just a minor mystery. 
LAFORGE: We could always check the computer's chronometer, see if
there's any evidence of tampering. 
CRUSHER: A transporter trace analysis might give us another indication
of how much time has actually passed. 
PICARD: Doctor, Commander, make it so. Meanwhile, we will maintain our
present course. If there is something wrong with Data, we
don't want him to be aware of our suspicions.

[Engineering]

LAFORGE: Gentlemen, how goes the battle? 
DATA: The long range and infra-red sensors apparently suffered ill
effects as a result of the wormhole. We are presently checking neutrino
and heavy particle detectors. 
LAFORGE: Great. I'll take over now, Data. The Captain wants you back on
the Bridge. See you later in Ten Forward? 
(Data leaves) 
LAFORGE: Nelson, I need your help with the computer.

[Transporter room]

CRUSHER: Hello, Chief. How's the elbow? 
O'BRIEN: Much better, thanks. This isn't a house call, is it? 
CRUSHER: No, it's not. Tell me, do you remember the last person to use
the transporter before we went through the wormhole? 
O'BRIEN: Let me check. Ensign Locklin. She's one of my technicians. 
CRUSHER: Tell her to report to Sickbay immediately.

[Sickbay]

CRUSHER: Electrolyte concentration? 
ALYSSA: Twelve point five deviation from previous. 
CRUSHER: Interesting. Check the cellular membranes. I'm willing to bet
the internal turgid pressure is off by almost
the same amount. 
ALYSSA: Eleven three deviation from the norm. 
CRUSHER: Terrific. That's what I wanted to hear. Thank you, Ensign
Locklin. That'll be all for now. 
(the Ensign leaves) 
CRUSHER: Crusher to Captain Picard. 
PICARD [OC]: What is it, Doctor? 
CRUSHER: I need to see you immediately. 
PICARD [OC]: I'm on my way to Engineering. Join me.

