RIKER WORF PICARD MCKNIGHT O'BRIEN OGAWA CRUSHER DATA
brown thank keiko opening interference solved coming ship helium

[Sickbay]

(O'Brien has a bad elbow) 
CRUSHER: Nothing broken, Chief, but the ligaments around the elbow have
been twisted pretty severely. What on earth were you doing when you
fell? 
O'BRIEN: Hanging a plant for Keiko. It's part of her running project to
give me a green thumb. 
CRUSHER: How's it working? 
O'BRIEN: Everything I touch seems to turn brown and wither away. 
CRUSHER: Alyssa, would you get me? Oh, never mind, I'll get it. You,
don't go away. 
[Sickbay lab]

(during the opening log, Beverly had been doing
something scientific with modules. Now she sees them again, full of
fuzzy pink stuff) 
CRUSHER: This isn't possible.

[Sickbay]

CRUSHER: Alyssa? 
OGAWA: Yes, Doctor? 
CRUSHER: Did you see anybody near the lab today? 
OGAWA: No, I didn't. 
CRUSHER: You didn't by chance adjust the environments on the incubation
containers? 
OGAWA: I would never touch one of your experiments unless you asked me
to, Doctor. 
CRUSHER: Of course not. I'm sorry, Alyssa. Thank you.

[Bridge]

WORF: Probe approaching the T-tauri system,
Captain. 
PICARD: Readings, Data? 
DATA: Coming in now, sir. The probe is within visual range of the
planet. 
PICARD: On screen. 
(the planet is green) 
DATA: Sensors indicate a hydrogen-helium composition with a frozen
helium core. 
RIKER: Wait a minute. Didn't your readings indicate a class M planet
before we passed through the wormhole, Data? 
DATA: It is possible the sensors were affected by interference from the
wormhole, Commander. It is clearly not a class M planet. 
PICARD: Mister Data, run a full diagnostic to make sure the wormhole
didn't permanently damage the sensors. 
DATA: Aye, sir. 
PICARD: Ensign, take us back on a course 
RIKER: Captain. 
PICARD: Problem, Number One? 
RIKER: It seems awfully strange that a malfunctioning sensor would give
such a specific misreading of a planet. I would have thought that a
time-space disturbance would have caused a lot more confusion than
that. 
DATA: It is conceivable that the sensors picked up the afterimage of an
actual planet on the other side of the wormhole. We could survey the
nearby stars for such a planet. It would require approximately six
days, sir. 
PICARD: No, no, we don't have time for that. We've encountered a minor
mystery, one that has been solved to my satisfaction. Number One,
unless there's a major objection, then Ensign McKnight should put us
back on course for Evadne Four. 
RIKER: No objection. 
PICARD: Ensign. 
MCKNIGHT: Aye, sir. 
[Ready room]

PICARD: Come. 
(Crusher enters with her modules) 
CRUSHER: I have something of a minor mystery on my hands. 
PICARD: A minor mystery?. That seems to be a recurring phrase these
days. Oh, Diomedian scarlet moss. I didn't know you were an
enthnobotanist. 
CRUSHER: It's a hobby. 
PICARD: You've got a good crop here. As I recall, it's not easy to
cultivate. 
CRUSHER: That's just it. I started these spores right before we were
all knocked unconscious by the wormhole. You said we were
unconscious for thirty seconds? 
PICARD: Correct. 
CRUSHER: Then why do these show a full day's growth? 
PICARD: Perhaps you've got some sort of fast growth strain. 
CRUSHER: Each of these incubators was set with spores from completely
different sources in the Diomedian system. I have a dozen more in the
lab. Perhaps something extraordinary happened to one of them, but not
to all of them. 
PICARD: Doctor, we were not unconscious for a full day. Everything on
board indicates that we were out for thirty seconds. The ship's
chronometer, the computer, everything, Doctor, including Commander
Data. 
CRUSHER: Jean-Luc, I'm telling you this is over twenty four hours of
growth. 
Captain's log, supplemental. Commander Data
continues to maintain that we were unconscious for only thirty seconds,
despite
Doctor Crusher's evidence to the contrary.

