TROI LAFORGE WORF PICARD RIKER CRUSHER DATA

[Corridor]

CRUSHER: Physiologically, each of us is on a daily
cycle. Our cells have developed rhythms based on a twenty-four hour
period. 
PICARD: The internal clock. 
CRUSHER: Exactly, and I can measure that effect at the molecular level.
I took a trace from the last person to use the transporter before the
incident, and compared her cell function levels at that time to what
they are right now. If we were unconscious for only thirty seconds,
those cycles should be nearly synchronous. 
PICARD: And were they? 
CRUSHER: No. We were out for longer than thirty seconds, Captain. A lot
longer.

[Engineering]

LAFORGE: I've got some good news, and some bad
news. The good news is that we were right about the computer's
chronometer. There's a security programme to prevent tampering, but it
looks now like it was disabled and a new
programme put in its place. Someone has reset the clock. 
PICARD: If that's the good news, what's the bad news? 
LAFORGE: That Data and I are the only ones aboard this ship capable of
doing it.

[Ready room]

DATA: It is a mystery, Captain. 
PICARD: That is an understatement, Data. Is it possible that someone or
something could have affected you without your knowing? 
DATA: I am unable to answer that question, sir. 
PICARD: Data, would you consent to being examined by Commander La
Forge? 
DATA: As you wish, Captain. 
PICARD: Will you escort Commander Data to Engineering? 
DATA: I know the way, sir. 
(but the lady security guard follows him anyway)

Captain's log, supplemental. It has become clear
that everyone aboard the Enterprise has lost an entire day. As the
mystery of what actually occurred during those missing hours continues
to deepen, so do my doubts about Commander Data.

[Engineering]

LAFORGE: We'll start with the higher functions
before we get down to basics. Okay. All right. Now, this won't hurt a
bit. 
(Geordi is probing an exposed part of Data's 'brain') 
DATA: Have you forgotten, Geordi, that my sensory inputs are not
programmed to experience pain? 
LAFORGE: A figure of speech. Bedside manner. I'm just trying to make
you feel comfortable. 
DATA: I am perfectly comfortable. 
LAFORGE: Pattern recognition, syntactic algorithms, heuristic
functions, all normal. 
DATA: I have noticed, however, that you appear a bit uncomfortable
yourself. 
LAFORGE: It just seems like you're not being completely honest with us.
Data, I'm your friend. If there's something wrong, I want you to tell
me. Maybe I can help. 
DATA: I cannot tell you anything beyond what I have already stated. 
LAFORGE: Okay. 
[Bridge]

LAFORGE: Excuse us, Counsellor. Captain, I finished
examining Data. 
PICARD: And? 
LAFORGE: Nothing's wrong with the technology, that I can see. He's in
perfect condition. 
PICARD: I was almost hoping that you'd find a problem. 
LAFORGE: He still could be malfunctioning beyond my ability to detect
it. 
PICARD: This entire mystery started when our sensors detected that
planet. First it was class-M, now it isn't. 
RIKER: But our sensors were malfunctioning. Our probe clearly
established the planet could not support life. 
PICARD: Data launched that probe. 
RIKER: If he rigged it, could you prove it? 
LAFORGE: I could try. 
PICARD: What happened to us in that missing day? Surely there must be
some clues. Each of us should try and think what we were doing just
before we blacked out. Reenact it if you have to. 
(Troi gasps and grabs the rail) 
WORF: Counsellor? 
PICARD: Deanna, are you all right? 
TROI: Just a moment. Yes. Yes, I'm fine. 
RIKER: What happened? 
TROI: I suddenly became dizzy. I'd think I'd better go to my quarters. 
PICARD: Perhaps Sickbay would be a better idea. 
TROI: No. No, really, I'm all right. 
PICARD: Will you see the Counsellor to her quarters? 
WORF: Aye, sir.

