TROI LAFORGE WORF PICARD CRUSHER DATA

[Corridor]

TROI: Thank you for coming with me, Mister Worf. 
WORF: You are certain you are well? 
TROI: I just need some rest. Thanks. 
(she goes inside her quarters. Worf is walking away when he hears a
scream) 
WORF: Deanna! Security! Override the lock on Counsellor Troi's
quarters! Now!

[Troi's quarters]

WORF: What's wrong? 
TROI: The mirror. I came in here. I looked into the mirror. It wasn't
me, Worf! It wasn't me! It was my face, but it wasn't me inside. 
(a little later) 
PICARD: Is she all right? 
TROI: I feel fine, now. 
CRUSHER: Signs of stress, adrenaline by-products higher than baseline.
But that's a normal reaction after sudden fright. All brain functions
check out okay. 
PICARD: What happened, Deanna? 
TROI: It wasn't what I saw, it was more what I felt. I looked into the
mirror, and it seemed a stranger was staring back at me from behind my
own eyes. As if my face was a mask. 
LAFORGE [OC]: La Forge to Captain Picard. 
[Engineering]

PICARD [OC]: Go ahead, Geordi. 
LAFORGE: I've found something, sir. 
PICARD [OC]: I'm on my way. 
[Sickbay]

CRUSHER: Lieutenant Worf. 
WORF: Doctor. 
CRUSHER: Can I help you? 
WORF: Perhaps not. 
CRUSHER: Worf, you came in here for something. 
WORF: A warrior does not complain about physical discomfort, but the
Captain ordered us to report anything out of the ordinary. 
(he is rubbing his right wrist) 
CRUSHER: Are you in pain? (she scans it) How did this happen?

[Data's quarters]

PICARD: Do you recognize this planet, Data? 
DATA: Yes, sir. It is the planet our probe detected in the T-tauri
system. 
LAFORGE: No it's not. Actually, it's Tethys three. I retrieved this
image from the ship's library. Its geophysical figures have been
slightly altered, but it's definitely Tethys three. 
PICARD: Strange, that an obscure planet several hundred light years
from here should be picked up by the probe. Data, did you take this
image from the ship's library and programme the probe to send it back
to us? 
DATA: I cannot verify that hypothesis. 
PICARD: But you don't deny it. 
DATA: No, sir. 
PICARD: Mister La Forge, will you send another probe to the T-tauri
system? 
LAFORGE: Yes, sir. I'm sorry, Data. 
(Geordi leaves) 
PICARD: Counsellor Troi just had a very disturbing hallucination. 
DATA: Is she all right, sir? 
PICARD: For the moment. Can you tell me if Deanna's incident is related
in any way to this missing time period? 
DATA: No, sir, I cannot. 
PICARD: Data, you're the key to this entire mystery and you've done
nothing but block my every attempt to solve it. Why are you fighting
me? 
DATA: It is not by choice. 
PICARD: What do you mean by that? 
DATA: I cannot say. 
PICARD: Would you rather endanger Deanna, a friend and a colleague,
than tell me what is going on?! 
DATA: Which would you place first, the welfare of a single individual
or that of the entire crew? 
PICARD: Are you saying that by not cooperating, you are actually
protecting us? 
DATA: I am not saying that at all. I merely state a possible
alternative explanation. 
PICARD: Then, Mister Data, I'm going to ask you again, and I order you
to directly answer me. What really happened to us? 
DATA: I cannot answer that. 
PICARD: What would you have me do, Data? How would you handle this if
our positions were reversed? 
DATA: I am apparently guilty of falsifying the Enterprise's records, of
interfering with an investigation, of disobeying a
direct order from my commanding officer. Your duty seems clear, sir. 
PICARD: Do you know what a court martial would mean? Your career in
Starfleet would be finished. 
DATA: I realise that, sir. 
PICARD: Do you also realise that you would most likely be stripped down
to your wires to find out what the hell has gone wrong? 
DATA: Yes, sir. I do.

