RIKER LAFORGE WORF PICARD MCKNIGHT OGAWA CRUSHER DATA
come environments range doesn transporter cultivate helium minute nearby

[Sickbay lab]

(during the opening log, Beverly had been doing
something scientific with modules. Now she sees them again, full of
fuzzy pink stuff) 
CRUSHER: This isn't possible.

[Sickbay]

CRUSHER: Alyssa? 
OGAWA: Yes, Doctor? 
CRUSHER: Did you see anybody near the lab today? 
OGAWA: No, I didn't. 
CRUSHER: You didn't by chance adjust the environments on the incubation
containers? 
OGAWA: I would never touch one of your experiments unless you asked me
to, Doctor. 
CRUSHER: Of course not. I'm sorry, Alyssa. Thank you.

[Bridge]

WORF: Probe approaching the T-tauri system,
Captain. 
PICARD: Readings, Data? 
DATA: Coming in now, sir. The probe is within visual range of the
planet. 
PICARD: On screen. 
(the planet is green) 
DATA: Sensors indicate a hydrogen-helium composition with a frozen
helium core. 
RIKER: Wait a minute. Didn't your readings indicate a class M planet
before we passed through the wormhole, Data? 
DATA: It is possible the sensors were affected by interference from the
wormhole, Commander. It is clearly not a class M planet. 
PICARD: Mister Data, run a full diagnostic to make sure the wormhole
didn't permanently damage the sensors. 
DATA: Aye, sir. 
PICARD: Ensign, take us back on a course 
RIKER: Captain. 
PICARD: Problem, Number One? 
RIKER: It seems awfully strange that a malfunctioning sensor would give
such a specific misreading of a planet. I would have thought that a
time-space disturbance would have caused a lot more confusion than
that. 
DATA: It is conceivable that the sensors picked up the afterimage of an
actual planet on the other side of the wormhole. We could survey the
nearby stars for such a planet. It would require approximately six
days, sir. 
PICARD: No, no, we don't have time for that. We've encountered a minor
mystery, one that has been solved to my satisfaction. Number One,
unless there's a major objection, then Ensign McKnight should put us
back on course for Evadne Four. 
RIKER: No objection. 
PICARD: Ensign. 
MCKNIGHT: Aye, sir. 
[Ready room]

PICARD: Come. 
(Crusher enters with her modules) 
CRUSHER: I have something of a minor mystery on my hands. 
PICARD: A minor mystery?. That seems to be a recurring phrase these
days. Oh, Diomedian scarlet moss. I didn't know you were an
enthnobotanist. 
CRUSHER: It's a hobby. 
PICARD: You've got a good crop here. As I recall, it's not easy to
cultivate. 
CRUSHER: That's just it. I started these spores right before we were
all knocked unconscious by the wormhole. You said we were
unconscious for thirty seconds? 
PICARD: Correct. 
CRUSHER: Then why do these show a full day's growth? 
PICARD: Perhaps you've got some sort of fast growth strain. 
CRUSHER: Each of these incubators was set with spores from completely
different sources in the Diomedian system. I have a dozen more in the
lab. Perhaps something extraordinary happened to one of them, but not
to all of them. 
PICARD: Doctor, we were not unconscious for a full day. Everything on
board indicates that we were out for thirty seconds. The ship's
chronometer, the computer, everything, Doctor, including Commander
Data. 
CRUSHER: Jean-Luc, I'm telling you this is over twenty four hours of
growth. 
Captain's log, supplemental. Commander Data
continues to maintain that we were unconscious for only thirty seconds,
despite
Doctor Crusher's evidence to the contrary.

[Observation lounge]

DATA: Captain, I have a hypothesis. The
twenty-second century physicist Pell Underhill conjectured that a major
disruption in time continuity could be compensated for by trillions of
counter reactions. That effect may have allowed
Doctor Crusher's mosses to arrive at the other side of the worm hole
with the unanticipated growth. 
LAFORGE: Underhill was talking about energy. 
DATA: True. Nevertheless, it is possible that the phenomenon could
occur in matter at much higher levels of organisation, given the proper
conditions. 
PICARD: Thank you, Data. An intriguing hypothesis. Well, perhaps we've
got a tempest in a test tube, after all. 
CRUSHER: Captain. 
PICARD: Data, I promised Mister Nelson that you would assist him with
the sensor diagnostic. You'll find him hard at work on deck thirty six.

DATA: As you wish, Captain. 
(Data leaves) 
PICARD: Do you believe him? I want a frank answer, Commander. 
LAFORGE: Not for a second. I'm amazed that he even proposed it. 
WORF: What are you suggesting, Captain? 
PICARD: I'm not sure, Mister Worf. I have never known Data to tell a
lie, and yet. 
CRUSHER: If we never went through that wormhole, then what happened to
us during that day? 
LAFORGE: If we were out for a whole day, why didn't our beards grow? 
RIKER: Whatever it was it seems something Data doesn't want to tell us
about. 
PICARD: It could be that whatever caused this situation also affected
Data. And it could be that he's telling the truth and that this is all
just a minor mystery. 
LAFORGE: We could always check the computer's chronometer, see if
there's any evidence of tampering. 
CRUSHER: A transporter trace analysis might give us another indication
of how much time has actually passed. 
PICARD: Doctor, Commander, make it so. Meanwhile, we will maintain our
present course. If there is something wrong with Data, we
don't want him to be aware of our suspicions.

