RIKER OBRIEN LAFORGE WORF PICARD CRUSHER DATA ALYSSA

[Observation lounge]

DATA: Captain, I have a hypothesis. The
twenty-second century physicist Pell Underhill conjectured that a major
disruption in time continuity could be compensated for by trillions of
counter reactions. That effect may have allowed
Doctor Crusher's mosses to arrive at the other side of the worm hole
with the unanticipated growth. 
LAFORGE: Underhill was talking about energy. 
DATA: True. Nevertheless, it is possible that the phenomenon could
occur in matter at much higher levels of organisation, given the proper
conditions. 
PICARD: Thank you, Data. An intriguing hypothesis. Well, perhaps we've
got a tempest in a test tube, after all. 
CRUSHER: Captain. 
PICARD: Data, I promised Mister Nelson that you would assist him with
the sensor diagnostic. You'll find him hard at work on deck thirty six.

DATA: As you wish, Captain. 
(Data leaves) 
PICARD: Do you believe him? I want a frank answer, Commander. 
LAFORGE: Not for a second. I'm amazed that he even proposed it. 
WORF: What are you suggesting, Captain? 
PICARD: I'm not sure, Mister Worf. I have never known Data to tell a
lie, and yet. 
CRUSHER: If we never went through that wormhole, then what happened to
us during that day? 
LAFORGE: If we were out for a whole day, why didn't our beards grow? 
RIKER: Whatever it was it seems something Data doesn't want to tell us
about. 
PICARD: It could be that whatever caused this situation also affected
Data. And it could be that he's telling the truth and that this is all
just a minor mystery. 
LAFORGE: We could always check the computer's chronometer, see if
there's any evidence of tampering. 
CRUSHER: A transporter trace analysis might give us another indication
of how much time has actually passed. 
PICARD: Doctor, Commander, make it so. Meanwhile, we will maintain our
present course. If there is something wrong with Data, we
don't want him to be aware of our suspicions.

[Engineering]

LAFORGE: Gentlemen, how goes the battle? 
DATA: The long range and infra-red sensors apparently suffered ill
effects as a result of the wormhole. We are presently checking neutrino
and heavy particle detectors. 
LAFORGE: Great. I'll take over now, Data. The Captain wants you back on
the Bridge. See you later in Ten Forward? 
(Data leaves) 
LAFORGE: Nelson, I need your help with the computer.

[Transporter room]

CRUSHER: Hello, Chief. How's the elbow? 
O'BRIEN: Much better, thanks. This isn't a house call, is it? 
CRUSHER: No, it's not. Tell me, do you remember the last person to use
the transporter before we went through the wormhole? 
O'BRIEN: Let me check. Ensign Locklin. She's one of my technicians. 
CRUSHER: Tell her to report to Sickbay immediately.

[Sickbay]

CRUSHER: Electrolyte concentration? 
ALYSSA: Twelve point five deviation from previous. 
CRUSHER: Interesting. Check the cellular membranes. I'm willing to bet
the internal turgid pressure is off by almost
the same amount. 
ALYSSA: Eleven three deviation from the norm. 
CRUSHER: Terrific. That's what I wanted to hear. Thank you, Ensign
Locklin. That'll be all for now. 
(the Ensign leaves) 
CRUSHER: Crusher to Captain Picard. 
PICARD [OC]: What is it, Doctor? 
CRUSHER: I need to see you immediately. 
PICARD [OC]: I'm on my way to Engineering. Join me.

[Corridor]

CRUSHER: Physiologically, each of us is on a daily
cycle. Our cells have developed rhythms based on a twenty-four hour
period. 
PICARD: The internal clock. 
CRUSHER: Exactly, and I can measure that effect at the molecular level.
I took a trace from the last person to use the transporter before the
incident, and compared her cell function levels at that time to what
they are right now. If we were unconscious for only thirty seconds,
those cycles should be nearly synchronous. 
PICARD: And were they? 
CRUSHER: No. We were out for longer than thirty seconds, Captain. A lot
longer.

