PICARD [OC] LAFORGE PICARD CRUSHER DATA ALYSSA
longer unconscious stated ensign answer speech ready check programme

[Sickbay]

CRUSHER: Electrolyte concentration? 
ALYSSA: Twelve point five deviation from previous. 
CRUSHER: Interesting. Check the cellular membranes. I'm willing to bet
the internal turgid pressure is off by almost
the same amount. 
ALYSSA: Eleven three deviation from the norm. 
CRUSHER: Terrific. That's what I wanted to hear. Thank you, Ensign
Locklin. That'll be all for now. 
(the Ensign leaves) 
CRUSHER: Crusher to Captain Picard. 
PICARD [OC]: What is it, Doctor? 
CRUSHER: I need to see you immediately. 
PICARD [OC]: I'm on my way to Engineering. Join me.

[Corridor]

CRUSHER: Physiologically, each of us is on a daily
cycle. Our cells have developed rhythms based on a twenty-four hour
period. 
PICARD: The internal clock. 
CRUSHER: Exactly, and I can measure that effect at the molecular level.
I took a trace from the last person to use the transporter before the
incident, and compared her cell function levels at that time to what
they are right now. If we were unconscious for only thirty seconds,
those cycles should be nearly synchronous. 
PICARD: And were they? 
CRUSHER: No. We were out for longer than thirty seconds, Captain. A lot
longer.

[Engineering]

LAFORGE: I've got some good news, and some bad
news. The good news is that we were right about the computer's
chronometer. There's a security programme to prevent tampering, but it
looks now like it was disabled and a new
programme put in its place. Someone has reset the clock. 
PICARD: If that's the good news, what's the bad news? 
LAFORGE: That Data and I are the only ones aboard this ship capable of
doing it.

[Ready room]

DATA: It is a mystery, Captain. 
PICARD: That is an understatement, Data. Is it possible that someone or
something could have affected you without your knowing? 
DATA: I am unable to answer that question, sir. 
PICARD: Data, would you consent to being examined by Commander La
Forge? 
DATA: As you wish, Captain. 
PICARD: Will you escort Commander Data to Engineering? 
DATA: I know the way, sir. 
(but the lady security guard follows him anyway)

Captain's log, supplemental. It has become clear
that everyone aboard the Enterprise has lost an entire day. As the
mystery of what actually occurred during those missing hours continues
to deepen, so do my doubts about Commander Data.

[Engineering]

LAFORGE: We'll start with the higher functions
before we get down to basics. Okay. All right. Now, this won't hurt a
bit. 
(Geordi is probing an exposed part of Data's 'brain') 
DATA: Have you forgotten, Geordi, that my sensory inputs are not
programmed to experience pain? 
LAFORGE: A figure of speech. Bedside manner. I'm just trying to make
you feel comfortable. 
DATA: I am perfectly comfortable. 
LAFORGE: Pattern recognition, syntactic algorithms, heuristic
functions, all normal. 
DATA: I have noticed, however, that you appear a bit uncomfortable
yourself. 
LAFORGE: It just seems like you're not being completely honest with us.
Data, I'm your friend. If there's something wrong, I want you to tell
me. Maybe I can help. 
DATA: I cannot tell you anything beyond what I have already stated. 
LAFORGE: Okay. 
