TROI LAFORGE WORF DATA [OC] PICARD LAFORGE [OC] RIKER MCKNIGHT COMPUTER CRUSHER DATA
zed fully free fusion individuals compromise memory trying miss

[Ready room]

CRUSHER: This wrist has been broken. Broken and
reset and treated with one of our subcutaneous bone fusion units. 
PICARD: During the missing day? 
CRUSHER: That's the only possibility. 
PICARD: Are you suggesting he was conscious? 
CRUSHER: I'm suggesting that maybe we all were. I certainly didn't
repair a broken wrist while I was unconscious. 
PICARD: And our memories of that day? 
CRUSHER: Blocked, possibly erased. 
PICARD: By whom? 
WORF: There are very few individuals on board who could have broken my
wrist. Commander Data is one of those individuals. 
PICARD: I can't accept that explanation. 
WORF: Well, he does possess the speed and the strength. 
PICARD: Granted, but I'm beginning to suspect that Commander Data is
refusing to co-operate because he believes he is acting in the best
interests of the Enterprise. 
LAFORGE [OC]: La Forge to Captain Picard. 
PICARD: Go ahead, Geordi. 
LAFORGE [OC]: Our probe is approaching the planet, sir. 
PICARD: Acknowledged. Maybe now we'll get some answers.

[Bridge]

PICARD: What do you have, Mister La Forge? 
LAFORGE: Visuals available now, Captain. 
RIKER: M-class. Nickel-iron core, nitrogen-oxygen atmosphere. 
PICARD: The same planet our sensors picked up before the so-called
wormhole. 
RIKER: Affirmative. 
LAFORGE: No indication of any space-time distortion whatsoever. The
probe should at least be detecting some residual effect, even if the
wormhole is inactive. 
PICARD: That's because there is no a wormhole. There never was. 
RIKER: Sir? 
PICARD: It was a ruse, designed to throw us off the track. Look at the
clues. Doctor Crusher's incubation experiment, the computer clock, the
transporter trace. All indicate the existence of a missing day.
Lieutenant Worf's broken wrist would seem to suggest that we were awake
and aware for that day, possibly in a struggle for our lives. 
CRUSHER: The fact that we're still alive suggests we might have won. 
PICARD: Not necessarily, Doctor. Data's behaviour would seem to suggest
we did not. Why else would he be willing to sacrifice his career rather
than tell the truth? 
WORF: If we didn't win and we didn't lose? 
PICARD: Then the only alternative would be a stalemate. Maybe a
compromise might have been reached, a compromise that forced Data into
this silence. 
RIKER: Maybe by uncovering all this, we run the risk of upsetting the
stalemate. Maybe we should leave well enough alone. 
PICARD: Possibly, Number One, and I would be prepared to live with the
mystery, but Data's role in this must be ascertained or he'll never be
trusted with starship duty again. Ensign, take us back to the scene of
the crime. The T-tauri system, warp two. 
(whoosh) 
MCKNIGHT: Within sensor range, Captain. 
PICARD: Drop to impulse, Ensign. Mister Worf, maximum shields. Ready
all weapons. 
WORF: Shields up. Photon torpedoes armed. Phasers standing by. Captain,
an energy field has appeared between our position and the planet. 
PICARD: On screen. (it's green) Hold position. Let's see what it does. 
WORF: The field has emitted an energy pulse. Approaching the
Enterprise. 
RIKER: Too slow to be a photon torpedo. 
WORF: It might be a probe. 
PICARD: Let's see what happens when it hits the shields. 
WORF: Shields undamaged. The energy pulse has dispersed. 
(Troi is asleep when the green pulse takes her over)

[Data's quarters]

DATA: Counsellor Troi, what is it? 
(Troi does not speak with her own voice, but sounds more like a Bynar) 
TROI: The plan has failed. 
DATA: You have returned. 
TROI: Your ship is again in our space. 
DATA: I was unable to prevent it. 
TROI: Nevertheless, you are here. 
DATA: The Enterprise is not a threat to you. Give me more time. Our
destruction would only 
(Geordi enters) 
LAFORGE: Data, Captain wanted me to bring you to the Bridge.
Counsellor. 
DATA: One moment, if you would. 
(Geordi leaves) 
DATA: Do nothing. It may yet be possible to salvage the situation.

[Bridge]

DATA: Reporting as ordered, Captain. 
PICARD: Well, Data, as you can see, we're back where it all started. 
DATA: We must leave immediately, sir. 
PICARD: Why? 
DATA: Any further delay would put us all at grave risk. 
PICARD: Why? What is the source of that risk? The energy field? 
DATA: I cannot say. 
PICARD: Data, you sound as if you're stuck in a feedback loop. You
certainly can say. You have free will, you have a choice. 
DATA: My silence is not by choice, sir. 
PICARD: Not by choice? Are you somehow being controlled by that force?
Did Geordi miss something when he examined you? 
DATA: Geordi's examination was exemplary. 
PICARD: Then why are you compelled to disobey my orders? How? During
the missing day, were you contacted by Starfleet? Did they order you to
conceal the truth from us? 
DATA: I cannot answer that. We must leave, sir. 
PICARD: This ship isn't going anywhere. Not until I get an answer. Now
who gave you that order? 
(the possessed Troi enters) 
DATA: You did, sir. 
PICARD: I ordered you to lie? 
WORF: Captain, the energy field is approaching. 
RIKER: Maintain shields at full intensity. 
DATA: No. We must vary shield shape and strength as rapidly as
possible. Maximum shields will only speed the ship's takeover. 
WORF: Contact imminent. 
PICARD: Do as Data says. At once. 
WORF: Aye, sir. The field is shifting amplitude, trying to match the
shields. 
DATA: The energy field will eventually penetrate our shields. There is
no way to counter the Paxans' technology. We can delay their takeover
but we cannot prevent it. 
PICARD: The Paxans. Who are they? 
TROI: You have invaded our system. 
(Worf points a phaser at Troi) 
PICARD: No, Worf. 
DATA: You will only harm Counsellor Troi's body. 
PICARD: We are not invaders. We are explorers. 
TROI: Your knowledge of us is unacceptable. 
DATA: They are xenophobes, sir. Isolationists. The Paxans terraformed a
protoplanet in this system in order to better conceal their
whereabouts. The apparent wormhole we experienced is actually a trap
designed to keep out invaders. The energy field stuns everyone on board
the invading vessel and places them in a state of biochemical stasis. 
LAFORGE: That explains why our beards didn't grow. 
DATA: The Paxans then take the ship out of their territory. 
RIKER: So the crew wakes up and thinks they've been through a wormhole,
count their blessings and keep going. 
DATA: Precisely. 
PICARD: What went wrong this time? 
DATA: My positronic brain is a technology unknown to the Paxans. 
TROI: Our stun field had no effect on him. He remained conscious while
we tried to take over the ship. 
DATA: When I realised the crew was incapacitated, I initiated emergency
procedures

[Flashback - Bridge]

DATA: Computer, engage emergency plan zed zed
alpha. 
COMPUTER: Automatic defense procedures initiated. Energy field strength
increasing. Warning, shield penetration seventeen percent. 
DATA: Computer, begin random fluctuation of shield frequency and
modulation. 
COMPUTER: Executed. 
DATA [OC]: With the Enterprise temporarily protected, I revived the
crew. 
DATA: Computer, release compound ADTH into the airflow system, five
parts per million. 
COMPUTER: Acknowledged. Initiating compound release now. 
(and they wake up) 
PICARD: Status, Data. 
DATA: The energy field is attempting to match shield frequencies, sir. 
PICARD: Options, Mister Worf? 
WORF: I do not recommend weapons at this range, Captain. 
PICARD: Can we go to warp? 
DATA: Negative, sir. The field is also acting as a tractor beam. 
(and the lights go down) 
COMPUTER: Warning. Shields have been penetrated. 
WORF: All systems are frozen, Captain. 
DATA [OC]: The Paxans can manipulate energy structures on many levels.
They took control of Counsellor Troi's body to communicate with us. 
(lights back up) 
WORF: Captain! 
(Worf dashes over with a phaser. Troi grabs his wrist and throws him
across the Bridge. That's how his wrist got broken) 
PICARD: No, stop, everyone. Who are you? 
TROI: You are aware of our existence. Our attempt to place you in
biochemical stasis has failed. We have no choice but to destroy this
ship. 
PICARD: If you destroy this ship, then others will come in search of
us. You may not be able to stop them all. Knowledge of your
civilisation would be spread across half the galaxy. 
TROI: No. 
PICARD: Allow us safe passage and I will protect your right to privacy
to the best of my ability. We will never tell anyone of your existence.

TROI: There are over a thousand lifeforms on this vessel. How could you
assure their silence? 
PICARD: This biochemical stasis, does it suppress synaptic functions? 
TROI: It does. 
PICARD: Then you must have the capability of affecting memory. Can you
erase the short-term memory of everyone on this ship, remove all
knowledge of this event, allow us to proceed as if it had never
happened? 
TROI: It would take time. One of your days. He is immune to our
influence. 
PICARD: Data, I'm going to give you a most unusual order. I'm not sure
that you will be able to integrate it into your
programme. 
DATA: As a Starfleet officer, I am required to follow all of your
orders, Captain. 
PICARD: Good, because our survival depends upon it. I am ordering you
never to reveal what has happened here today. Not to Starfleet, not to
myself. You will conceal your knowledge of the Paxans for as long as
you exist. Do you fully understood, Data? 
DATA: Completely, sir. 
PICARD: Satisfactory? 
TROI: Agreed. 
PICARD: Good. Now, our task is to eliminate from the ship's records any
information that might lead to knowledge of this incident. Let's get to
work.

