TROI LAFORGE WORF PICARD RIKER MCKNIGHT CRUSHER DATA

[Sickbay]

CRUSHER: Lieutenant Worf. 
WORF: Doctor. 
CRUSHER: Can I help you? 
WORF: Perhaps not. 
CRUSHER: Worf, you came in here for something. 
WORF: A warrior does not complain about physical discomfort, but the
Captain ordered us to report anything out of the ordinary. 
(he is rubbing his right wrist) 
CRUSHER: Are you in pain? (she scans it) How did this happen?

[Data's quarters]

PICARD: Do you recognize this planet, Data? 
DATA: Yes, sir. It is the planet our probe detected in the T-tauri
system. 
LAFORGE: No it's not. Actually, it's Tethys three. I retrieved this
image from the ship's library. Its geophysical figures have been
slightly altered, but it's definitely Tethys three. 
PICARD: Strange, that an obscure planet several hundred light years
from here should be picked up by the probe. Data, did you take this
image from the ship's library and programme the probe to send it back
to us? 
DATA: I cannot verify that hypothesis. 
PICARD: But you don't deny it. 
DATA: No, sir. 
PICARD: Mister La Forge, will you send another probe to the T-tauri
system? 
LAFORGE: Yes, sir. I'm sorry, Data. 
(Geordi leaves) 
PICARD: Counsellor Troi just had a very disturbing hallucination. 
DATA: Is she all right, sir? 
PICARD: For the moment. Can you tell me if Deanna's incident is related
in any way to this missing time period? 
DATA: No, sir, I cannot. 
PICARD: Data, you're the key to this entire mystery and you've done
nothing but block my every attempt to solve it. Why are you fighting
me? 
DATA: It is not by choice. 
PICARD: What do you mean by that? 
DATA: I cannot say. 
PICARD: Would you rather endanger Deanna, a friend and a colleague,
than tell me what is going on?! 
DATA: Which would you place first, the welfare of a single individual
or that of the entire crew? 
PICARD: Are you saying that by not cooperating, you are actually
protecting us? 
DATA: I am not saying that at all. I merely state a possible
alternative explanation. 
PICARD: Then, Mister Data, I'm going to ask you again, and I order you
to directly answer me. What really happened to us? 
DATA: I cannot answer that. 
PICARD: What would you have me do, Data? How would you handle this if
our positions were reversed? 
DATA: I am apparently guilty of falsifying the Enterprise's records, of
interfering with an investigation, of disobeying a
direct order from my commanding officer. Your duty seems clear, sir. 
PICARD: Do you know what a court martial would mean? Your career in
Starfleet would be finished. 
DATA: I realise that, sir. 
PICARD: Do you also realise that you would most likely be stripped down
to your wires to find out what the hell has gone wrong? 
DATA: Yes, sir. I do.

[Ready room]

CRUSHER: This wrist has been broken. Broken and
reset and treated with one of our subcutaneous bone fusion units. 
PICARD: During the missing day? 
CRUSHER: That's the only possibility. 
PICARD: Are you suggesting he was conscious? 
CRUSHER: I'm suggesting that maybe we all were. I certainly didn't
repair a broken wrist while I was unconscious. 
PICARD: And our memories of that day? 
CRUSHER: Blocked, possibly erased. 
PICARD: By whom? 
WORF: There are very few individuals on board who could have broken my
wrist. Commander Data is one of those individuals. 
PICARD: I can't accept that explanation. 
WORF: Well, he does possess the speed and the strength. 
PICARD: Granted, but I'm beginning to suspect that Commander Data is
refusing to co-operate because he believes he is acting in the best
interests of the Enterprise. 
LAFORGE [OC]: La Forge to Captain Picard. 
PICARD: Go ahead, Geordi. 
LAFORGE [OC]: Our probe is approaching the planet, sir. 
PICARD: Acknowledged. Maybe now we'll get some answers.

[Bridge]

PICARD: What do you have, Mister La Forge? 
LAFORGE: Visuals available now, Captain. 
RIKER: M-class. Nickel-iron core, nitrogen-oxygen atmosphere. 
PICARD: The same planet our sensors picked up before the so-called
wormhole. 
RIKER: Affirmative. 
LAFORGE: No indication of any space-time distortion whatsoever. The
probe should at least be detecting some residual effect, even if the
wormhole is inactive. 
PICARD: That's because there is no a wormhole. There never was. 
RIKER: Sir? 
PICARD: It was a ruse, designed to throw us off the track. Look at the
clues. Doctor Crusher's incubation experiment, the computer clock, the
transporter trace. All indicate the existence of a missing day.
Lieutenant Worf's broken wrist would seem to suggest that we were awake
and aware for that day, possibly in a struggle for our lives. 
CRUSHER: The fact that we're still alive suggests we might have won. 
PICARD: Not necessarily, Doctor. Data's behaviour would seem to suggest
we did not. Why else would he be willing to sacrifice his career rather
than tell the truth? 
WORF: If we didn't win and we didn't lose? 
PICARD: Then the only alternative would be a stalemate. Maybe a
compromise might have been reached, a compromise that forced Data into
this silence. 
RIKER: Maybe by uncovering all this, we run the risk of upsetting the
stalemate. Maybe we should leave well enough alone. 
PICARD: Possibly, Number One, and I would be prepared to live with the
mystery, but Data's role in this must be ascertained or he'll never be
trusted with starship duty again. Ensign, take us back to the scene of
the crime. The T-tauri system, warp two. 
(whoosh) 
MCKNIGHT: Within sensor range, Captain. 
PICARD: Drop to impulse, Ensign. Mister Worf, maximum shields. Ready
all weapons. 
WORF: Shields up. Photon torpedoes armed. Phasers standing by. Captain,
an energy field has appeared between our position and the planet. 
PICARD: On screen. (it's green) Hold position. Let's see what it does. 
WORF: The field has emitted an energy pulse. Approaching the
Enterprise. 
RIKER: Too slow to be a photon torpedo. 
WORF: It might be a probe. 
PICARD: Let's see what happens when it hits the shields. 
WORF: Shields undamaged. The energy pulse has dispersed. 
(Troi is asleep when the green pulse takes her over)

[Data's quarters]

DATA: Counsellor Troi, what is it? 
(Troi does not speak with her own voice, but sounds more like a Bynar) 
TROI: The plan has failed. 
DATA: You have returned. 
TROI: Your ship is again in our space. 
DATA: I was unable to prevent it. 
TROI: Nevertheless, you are here. 
DATA: The Enterprise is not a threat to you. Give me more time. Our
destruction would only 
(Geordi enters) 
LAFORGE: Data, Captain wanted me to bring you to the Bridge.
Counsellor. 
DATA: One moment, if you would. 
(Geordi leaves) 
DATA: Do nothing. It may yet be possible to salvage the situation.

