RIKER TAVA DURKEN MIRASTA KROLA BEREL VOICE [OC] NURSE LANEL NILREM
collecting afraid escaping clear spies travellers vessel new recover

[Medical Facility Corridor]

(an undetermined length of time later) 
LANEL: Something's happened to him. I think he's dead. Go on, get some
help. 
(the guard runs off, and she beckons Riker out of the room) 
LANEL: Okay. No, that way. 
RIKER: Thanks. 
LANEL: Will I ever see you again? 
RIKER: I'll call you the next time I pass through your star system. 
(Riker heads off down the corridor, but gets spotted) 
NILREM: Stop him! Somebody stop him! 
NURSE: Hold it. 
VOICE [OC]: He's escaping! The alien's escaping! 
(Riker knocks out a guard who swings at him with a club, then a second,
but he is finally brought down and kicked while he is on the floor) 
BEREL: Stop it! All of you! Stop it now! Have you all lost your minds? 
TAVA: They've aggravated the injury to his renal organ. He's bleeding
internally. 
BEREL: Get him into a surgical cubicle. And call Central Security. This
has gone too far.

[Durken's office]

DURKEN: Their leader, Picard, has made it clear
that how we proceed is entirely our own decision. 
KROLA: You cannot possibly be suggesting surrender, Chancellor. 
MIRASTA: They are not hostile. 
KROLA: Mirasta, you are incredibly naive. Can you be so enraptured with
the notion of space travellers that you are blind to the threat they
represent? 
DURKEN: I have seen their vessel, Krola. If they chose to be hostile, I
do not think we would be standing here now. 
KROLA: Why should they use force when we are ready to lay down in fear.

DURKEN: I do not lay down in fear, to them or to you, Krola. 
KROLA: Chancellor, I mean no disrespect, but I have repeatedly warned
you about your policies, taking us so quickly where we had no business
going in the first place. New philosophies, new economics, new
technologies. There are many people who still
value our traditional way of life and I for one am willing to die to
defend it. 
MIRASTA: Open your eyes, Krola. We are part of a greater community. We
cannot ignore it. 
KROLA: You would ignore them as they infiltrate and spy on us. 
DURKEN: What are you saying, Krola? 
KROLA: We have captured one of their spies. 
MIRASTA: Chancellor, he is Captain Picard's first officer, Commander
Riker. 
DURKEN: You knew about this, Mirasta? 
MIRASTA: He has been missing for two days. I told Captain Picard not to
discuss this because I was afraid this is exactly what would happen. 
DURKEN: What else do you know, Mirasta? Everything! 
MIRASTA: They have been on our planet, observing, for several years. 
KROLA: Years! Imagine what they have done. Influenced our young,
stirred up dissent. 
MIRASTA: They were collecting information. 
DURKEN: Where is this Commander Riker now? 
KROLA: He's in the Sikla Medical facility. He's recovering from
surgery. He suffered head injuries in an escape attempt. He will
recover consciousness in a few hours.

