MIRASTA TAVA PICARD TROI BEREL NURSE NILREM

[Ten Forward]

(Mirasta is enthralled by the view of her world
from above) 
MIRASTA: It's everything I've ever dreamed of. When I was a child, my
parents would take me to the
planetarium and we would sit in the dark and it was as if I was on a
spaceship, on my way to another world to meet people on other planets.
Part of me keeps waiting for the lights to come up and the programme to
end. How did you know about me? 
PICARD: We learn as much as possible about a planet before we make
first contact. 
TROI: One of the things we monitor are your broadcast signals, your
journalism, your music, your humour. Try to better understand you as a
people. 
MIRASTA: I hate to think how you would judge us based on our popular
music and entertainment. 
PICARD: Indeed, we do get an incomplete picture, which is why we also
do surface reconnaissance. 
MIRASTA: You've had people on our planet? 
TROI: For several years. 
PICARD: These are specialists, highly trained observation teams,
superficially identical to yourselves and therefore able to blend
naturally into your society. You see, we have discovered that the most
hazardous aspect of these missions is a lack of sufficient information 
MIRASTA: You don't have to explain. I understand, although not
everybody on my planet would. They
would think you were trying to infiltrate our society. 
PICARD: There is a difficulty here, one that has forced us to
accelerate this entire process. One of our people is missing. My First
Officer, Commander William Riker. He was down on the planet surface,
coordinating with the observation team the final details of contact. He
disappeared. My people have made enquiries but they've not been able to
locate him. If there is anything you can help 
MIRASTA: Of course. Where was Riker's last known location? 
TROI: The capital city. He was under the name of Rivas Jakara, a
tourist from the Marta community. 
MIRASTA: We must find him before someone realises what he really is. If
this gets out prematurely, it could seriously complicate matters. Our
ideology is based on the assumption that the Malcorian is a supreme
lifeform, and our world is the centre of the universe. Your arrival
will change our entire understanding of life, and some will not want it
to change. 
PICARD: What about Durken? 
MIRASTA: Durken. He will be open-minded, but cautious. I strongly
suggest that you do not discuss your surveillance teams with him. At
least not right away. 
PICARD: But with the disappearance of Commander Riker, wouldn't it be
prudent 
MIRASTA: Captain Picard, I must ask you to trust me on this. If you
tell the Chancellor about Commander Riker, you will undermine
everything that you hope to accomplish here. Durken will assign Krola,
our Minister of Security, to find him. Krola has his own political
agenda. He will perceive you as the greatest threat that our people
have ever known. And he will not hesitate to use Riker to prove that he
is correct. 
[Medical Facility Corridor]

(Rumours are spreading) 
NURSE: From another planet, hundreds of them. 
NILREM: It doesn't make sense that he's the only one. Think about it. 
BEREL: I thought I said this was to be kept a secret. 
TAVA: You know Nilrem. 
BEREL: Well, it's getting out of control. I don't know what else he is,
but he is still a patient in this medical facility and we have a
responsibility for his care and recovery. Remind them of that, will
you? 
TAVA: You're not going to be able to contain this much longer. 
BEREL: I know. 
TAVA: If people get scared enough, anything could happen 
