MIRASTA TAVA DURKEN KROLA BEREL VOICE NILREM

[Medical Facility Corridor]

NILREM: Genetic irregularities? That thing isn't
even the same species as we are. 
BEREL: Keep your voice down. The last thing we need is a panic in here
over some 
NILREM: It's all the space flights. They have attracted creatures from
outer space. 
BEREL: That's exactly the kind of thing I don't want to hear. 
TAVA: What are you going to do? 
BEREL: Of all the medical facilities available, why did he have to end
up here? 
NILREM: I think we ought to call Central Security. 
BEREL: Well, I'm not calling anybody yet. Not till we've done a lot
more. A lot more. I want his story checked out. Run a complete search
through the medical library. Be absolutely certain there's never been
anything like him. 
NILREM: What if there're more of them? They could be everywhere. 
BEREL: Cordon off the wing. I want security on his door twenty nine
hours a day, and I want this kept quiet. 
VOICE [OC]: Code three drill
in B wing. All instructors report immediately. 
[Durken's office]

(Everyone say hi to Carolyn Seymour, taking a break
from being a Romulan) 
MIRASTA: At twelve point four after launch, the warp field generator
will be activated. 
DURKEN: That's when it would break the light barrier? 
MIRASTA: Yes, Chancellor. If we're successful, the craft will leave our
star system, and in a matter of minutes will be on its way to the Garth
system. 
KROLA: And then what? 
MIRASTA: And then, Krola, we'll see what's there. 
DURKEN: How long, Mirasta? 
MIRASTA: We have the prototype design for the warp engine. It would
simply be a matter of building the actual production units. If I get
your approval today, ten months, maybe less. 
KROLA: Chancellor, I'll admit Mirasta's enthusiasm for her work is
seductive, but perhaps we're moving too fast. Your opponents will see
this as another example of your determination to pull us further from
our traditional ways. 
DURKEN: My opponents look back as I look forward. I cannot believe that
my people would choose to retreat after all we've done. 
MIRASTA: I agree. 
KROLA: The people were willing to accept your social reforms because
they believe in you, Chancellor. But there are many who say we have
gone far enough. All these new ideas, new technology, and now space
travel? It confuses them, frightens them. 
DURKEN: I will not allow them to remain in the dark ages. The warp
programme will proceed as you have outlined, Mirasta. And then we will
slow down, Krola, to let everyone catch their breath. Including you.

