MIRASTA BEREL KROLA DURKEN

[Durken's office]

DURKEN: Their leader, Picard, has made it clear
that how we proceed is entirely our own decision. 
KROLA: You cannot possibly be suggesting surrender, Chancellor. 
MIRASTA: They are not hostile. 
KROLA: Mirasta, you are incredibly naive. Can you be so enraptured with
the notion of space travellers that you are blind to the threat they
represent? 
DURKEN: I have seen their vessel, Krola. If they chose to be hostile, I
do not think we would be standing here now. 
KROLA: Why should they use force when we are ready to lay down in fear.

DURKEN: I do not lay down in fear, to them or to you, Krola. 
KROLA: Chancellor, I mean no disrespect, but I have repeatedly warned
you about your policies, taking us so quickly where we had no business
going in the first place. New philosophies, new economics, new
technologies. There are many people who still
value our traditional way of life and I for one am willing to die to
defend it. 
MIRASTA: Open your eyes, Krola. We are part of a greater community. We
cannot ignore it. 
KROLA: You would ignore them as they infiltrate and spy on us. 
DURKEN: What are you saying, Krola? 
KROLA: We have captured one of their spies. 
MIRASTA: Chancellor, he is Captain Picard's first officer, Commander
Riker. 
DURKEN: You knew about this, Mirasta? 
MIRASTA: He has been missing for two days. I told Captain Picard not to
discuss this because I was afraid this is exactly what would happen. 
DURKEN: What else do you know, Mirasta? Everything! 
MIRASTA: They have been on our planet, observing, for several years. 
KROLA: Years! Imagine what they have done. Influenced our young,
stirred up dissent. 
MIRASTA: They were collecting information. 
DURKEN: Where is this Commander Riker now? 
KROLA: He's in the Sikla Medical facility. He's recovering from
surgery. He suffered head injuries in an escape attempt. He will
recover consciousness in a few hours.

[Riker's hospital room]

KROLA: Will he survive? 
BEREL: I didn't think he would have survived the injuries. 
KROLA: I have to interrogate him before he dies. 
BEREL: At least give him time to regain some strength. Come back
tomorrow. 
KROLA: It cannot wait until tomorrow. 
(Mirasta enters) 
MIRASTA: Krola, we can get help from his ship. With their medical
technology, he might recover. 
KROLA: We're not giving him back. He's the one advantage we have now.
Use your drugs to revive him. 
BEREL: Those drugs increase cardial rate and vascular pressure. That's
the last thing we need to do to him right now. 
MIRASTA: It will probably be enough to kill him. You can't do it! 
KROLA: Revive him. 
BEREL: I'm just a physician, Minister. I don't know much about affairs
of state, but he is a living, intelligent being. I don't care if the
Chancellor himself calls down here. I have sworn an oath to do no harm,
and I will not. 
KROLA: Then I'll find someone to replace you. 
