PICARD MIRASTA BEREL KROLA DURKEN

[Riker's hospital room]

KROLA: Will he survive? 
BEREL: I didn't think he would have survived the injuries. 
KROLA: I have to interrogate him before he dies. 
BEREL: At least give him time to regain some strength. Come back
tomorrow. 
KROLA: It cannot wait until tomorrow. 
(Mirasta enters) 
MIRASTA: Krola, we can get help from his ship. With their medical
technology, he might recover. 
KROLA: We're not giving him back. He's the one advantage we have now.
Use your drugs to revive him. 
BEREL: Those drugs increase cardial rate and vascular pressure. That's
the last thing we need to do to him right now. 
MIRASTA: It will probably be enough to kill him. You can't do it! 
KROLA: Revive him. 
BEREL: I'm just a physician, Minister. I don't know much about affairs
of state, but he is a living, intelligent being. I don't care if the
Chancellor himself calls down here. I have sworn an oath to do no harm,
and I will not. 
KROLA: Then I'll find someone to replace you. 
[Durken's office]

(Picard beams straight in) 
PICARD: Chancellor. 
DURKEN: You are punctual, Captain. 
PICARD: I know how busy you are. 
DURKEN: Do you? I think you know a great deal more about me than I know
about you. 
PICARD: In what respect? 
DURKEN: You speak of trust and peace and working together to enter a
new era, and at the same time you conduct secret surveillance posing as
Malcorians. 
PICARD: Commander Riker? 
DURKEN: Commander Riker. 
PICARD: Mirasta said it would be a mistake to discuss this with you. 
DURKEN: Yes, she's tried to accept the responsibility. 
PICARD: It was my error, not hers. Chancellor, there is no starship
mission more dangerous than that of first contact. We never know what
we will face when we open the door on a new world, how we will be
greeted, what exactly the dangers will be. Centuries ago, a disastrous
contact with the Klingon Empire led to decades of war. It was decided
then we would do surveillance before making contact. It was a
controversial decision. I believe it prevented more problems than it
created. 
DURKEN: I can appreciate the logic of your position, Captain. But it
would seem a full disclosure after contact would have been in order. 
PICARD: In time there would have been full disclosure. I can only ask
you to believe that. On other worlds it would not be an issue. But
here, everything our observers reported indicated that the people of
this world would almost certainly react negatively to our arrival. We
could see that even surveillance might even be interpreted as an act of
aggression. I hoped that we would have found Commander Riker before you
did so the matter would not complicate our introduction. It was a
mistake. 
DURKEN: Yes. A mistake I might have made in your place. I rather like
it actually. 
PICARD: Like it? 
DURKEN: That you make mistakes like any man. 
PICARD: Chancellor, I have made some fine ones in my time. Now, I must
ask you, will you release my officer? 
DURKEN: We'll talk again later, Captain. 
PICARD: Enterprise, one to beam up.

