RIKER BEREL TAVA NILREM
members confusion actually looking going understand want seen correct

[Riker's hospital room]

(later, Riker is a bed, being seen by the Senior
Registrar or equivalent) 
RIKER: What happened? 
BEREL: You're in the crisis room at the Sikla Medical Facility. You've
had a severe injury, but you're going to be all right. 
RIKER: I was caught in the riots when the police moved in. It's the
last thing I remember. 
BEREL: Can you tell us your name? 
RIKER: Rivas. Rivas Jakara. 
BEREL: Rivas Jakara? Where do you live? 
RIKER: In the Marta community on the southern continent. 
TAVA: You're a long way from home. Do you have any members of your
family we should notify? 
RIKER: No, I have no family. I can't stay here. I have to get back. 
BEREL: You're in no condition to leave yet. There are several unusual
things about your case, Mister Jakara. Your cranial lobes, for
instance, they seem to be surgical implants. 
RIKER: I had cosmetic surgery to correct a genetic birth defect. 
BEREL: And these? (his hands) Another birth defect? 
RIKER: Yes, isn't that something? My father's were the same way. 
NILREM: You want us to believe that all your abnormalities are
inherited genetic traits? 
RIKER: I understand your confusion. My personal physician is much more
familiar with these genetic irregularities. To be honest, I would much
feel better back home under her care. 
BEREL: Why don't I talk to her about that. What's her name? 
RIKER: Crusher. Actually, I'm not sure you'll be able to reach her. 
BEREL: Why not? 
RIKER: She's taking a sabbatical. 
BEREL: Well, we'll do the best we can for you. Oh, there was one other
thing. We found this curious-looking device in your clothes. What is
it? 
(it's a phaser) 
RIKER: It's just a toy. I was taking home as a present. 
BEREL: I thought you didn't have any family. 
RIKER: It's for a neighbour's child. Was there anything else found? I
had one piece of jewelry, a metal pin. 
BEREL: No, I'm sorry, this was all we found.

