PICARD MIRASTA TROI KROLA DURKEN

[Durken's office]

(Everyone say hi to Carolyn Seymour, taking a break
from being a Romulan) 
MIRASTA: At twelve point four after launch, the warp field generator
will be activated. 
DURKEN: That's when it would break the light barrier? 
MIRASTA: Yes, Chancellor. If we're successful, the craft will leave our
star system, and in a matter of minutes will be on its way to the Garth
system. 
KROLA: And then what? 
MIRASTA: And then, Krola, we'll see what's there. 
DURKEN: How long, Mirasta? 
MIRASTA: We have the prototype design for the warp engine. It would
simply be a matter of building the actual production units. If I get
your approval today, ten months, maybe less. 
KROLA: Chancellor, I'll admit Mirasta's enthusiasm for her work is
seductive, but perhaps we're moving too fast. Your opponents will see
this as another example of your determination to pull us further from
our traditional ways. 
DURKEN: My opponents look back as I look forward. I cannot believe that
my people would choose to retreat after all we've done. 
MIRASTA: I agree. 
KROLA: The people were willing to accept your social reforms because
they believe in you, Chancellor. But there are many who say we have
gone far enough. All these new ideas, new technology, and now space
travel? It confuses them, frightens them. 
DURKEN: I will not allow them to remain in the dark ages. The warp
programme will proceed as you have outlined, Mirasta. And then we will
slow down, Krola, to let everyone catch their breath. Including you.

[Mirasta's lab]

(Mirasta is punching buttons when two figures beam
in) 
PICARD: Mirasta Yale? 
MIRASTA: Yes. 
TROI: Please, don't be alarmed at our appearance. 
PICARD: My name is Jean-Luc Picard. This is my associate Deanna Troi. 
MIRASTA: What are you? 
TROI: We've come with some important information. 
MIRASTA: About what? 
PICARD: About space. About the universe you are preparing to enter. 
TROI: We come from a federation of planets. Captain Picard is from a
planet called Earth, which is over two thousand light years from here.
I'm from another planet called Betazed. 
PICARD: We've been monitoring your progress toward warp-drive
capability. When a society reaches your level of technology and is
clearly about to initiate warp travel, we feel the time is right for
first contact. We prefer meeting like this, rather than a random
confrontation in deep space. 
TROI: We've come to you first because you're a leader in the scientific
community. Scientists generally accept our arrival more easily than
others. 
PICARD: We almost always encounter shock and fear on this sort of
mission. We hope that you will help us facilitate our introduction. 
MIRASTA: Is this a joke? Did Lupo and the others from the lab put you
up to this? 
PICARD: It's certainly no joke. As you can see, we are physically quite
different from Malcorians. And, with your permission, I'm prepared to
prove it to you. 
MIRASTA: I would like that. 
PICARD: Picard to Enterprise. Three to beam up.

