PICARD RIKER LANEL DURKEN
toast language differences leader chorus easy fear morning overwhelmed

[Ready room]

(Picard pours some wine) 
PICARD: I've been saving this for a special occasion. My brother on
Earth produces fruit known as grapes, which he turns into wine. He's
really quite good at it. Chancellor, we have a tradition called a
toast. It is a drink to salute one's friends and good fortune, and I
would like to propose a toast to a new friendship. 
DURKEN: We have something very much like this here on Malcor Three. 
PICARD: I think we shall find we have much in common. 
DURKEN: And much that is not in common. 
PICARD: An opportunity to learn from one another. 
DURKEN: You speak the language of diplomacy very well, Captain. It is a
language I appreciate and understand, but I have learned to not always
trust it. 
PICARD: Trust requires time and experience. 
DURKEN: My world's history has recorded that conquerors often arrived
with the words, we are your friends. 
PICARD: We are not here as conquerors, Chancellor. 
DURKEN: What do you want? 
PICARD: A beginning. But how we proceed is entirely up to you. 
DURKEN: And if my wishes should conflict with yours? 
PICARD: There'll be no conflict. 
DURKEN: And if I should tell you to leave and never return to my world?

PICARD: We will leave and never return. Chancellor, we are here only to
help guide you into a new era. I can assure you we will not interfere
in the natural development of your planet. That is, in fact, our Prime
Directive. 
DURKEN: I can infer from that directive that you do not intend to share
all this exceptional technology with us. 
PICARD: That is not the whole meaning, but it is part of it. 
DURKEN: Is this your way of maintaining superiority? 
PICARD: Chancellor, to instantly transform a society with technology
would be harmful and it would be destructive, 
DURKEN: You're right, of course. I'm overwhelmed, Captain Picard. I'm
quite overwhelmed. I go home each night to a loving wife, two beautiful
daughters. We eat the evening meal together as a family, I think that's
important. And they always ask me if I've had a good day. 
PICARD: And how shall you answer them tonight, Chancellor? 
DURKEN: I will have to say this morning, I was the leader of the
universe as I knew it. This afternoon, I am only a voice in a chorus.
But I think it was a good day.

[Riker's hospital room]

(Riker is out of bed and looking for a way out when
a woman enters) 
LANEL: There are guards out there. You'll never escape that way. I'm
not afraid of you. 
RIKER: Good. Because there's nothing to be afraid of. 
LANEL: We shouldn't fear the unknown. We should embrace it. 
RIKER: Can you help me get out of here? 
LANEL: Are you really an alien? It's all right to tell me. 
RIKER: No, I'm not an alien. 
LANEL: I don't believe you. You are an alien. 
RIKER: I really have to leave. 
LANEL: I could divert the guard's attention. You might stand a chance
if you took the service exit down the hallway to the right. 
RIKER: To the right? Fine, let's do it. 
LANEL: Why should I? 
RIKER: Well, you know why. I don't belong here. I have to get back on
my ship, in space. 
LANEL: I believe you. 
RIKER: Now, will you help me? 
LANEL: If you make love to me. 
RIKER: What? 
LANEL: I've always wanted to make love with an alien. 
RIKER: Listen, Miss 
LANEL: Lanel. 
RIKER: Lanel, I really have to get going. All the other aliens are
waiting for me. 
LANEL: Oh, it's not so much to ask, and then I'll help you escape. 
RIKER: It's not that easy. There are differences in the way that my
people make love. 
LANEL: I can't wait to learn. 
(she takes of her spectacles) 
RIKER: But it's 
LANEL: It's your only way out of here, my alien.

