PICARD MIRASTA DATA DURKEN

[Bridge]

PICARD: And this is the Bridge. 
MIRASTA: Chancellor. 
(a brief gaze at their planet on the viewscreen) 
PICARD: Here we have Environmental and Engineering stations, mission
operations, and the two principal science stations. 
PICARD: Data, allow me to introduce Chancellor Avel Durken and Space
Administrator Mirasta Yale. 
DATA: Chancellor. Minister. 
PICARD: Commander Data is my Second Officer. 
MIRASTA: He's an android, Chancellor. A constructed being. 
DURKEN: A machine? 
DATA: In a manner of speaking. The term artificial lifeform would be
more accurate. 
DURKEN: Captain Picard, is there someplace we might speak together
without distraction? 
PICARD: Certainly. 
MIRASTA: Chancellor, with your permission, I would like to beam to the
surface. I have several matters to attend to. 
DURKEN: Not a word to anyone about this, Mirasta. 
MIRASTA: Of course. 
PICARD: Mister Data, will you escort the Minister to the transporter
room? Chancellor. 
(Picard and Durken leave) 
MIRASTA: Has there still been no communication from Commander Riker,
Data? 
DATA: No, Minister. He has not returned to our designated transport
coordinates. We have continued to scan the capital city without
success.

[Ready room]

(Picard pours some wine) 
PICARD: I've been saving this for a special occasion. My brother on
Earth produces fruit known as grapes, which he turns into wine. He's
really quite good at it. Chancellor, we have a tradition called a
toast. It is a drink to salute one's friends and good fortune, and I
would like to propose a toast to a new friendship. 
DURKEN: We have something very much like this here on Malcor Three. 
PICARD: I think we shall find we have much in common. 
DURKEN: And much that is not in common. 
PICARD: An opportunity to learn from one another. 
DURKEN: You speak the language of diplomacy very well, Captain. It is a
language I appreciate and understand, but I have learned to not always
trust it. 
PICARD: Trust requires time and experience. 
DURKEN: My world's history has recorded that conquerors often arrived
with the words, we are your friends. 
PICARD: We are not here as conquerors, Chancellor. 
DURKEN: What do you want? 
PICARD: A beginning. But how we proceed is entirely up to you. 
DURKEN: And if my wishes should conflict with yours? 
PICARD: There'll be no conflict. 
DURKEN: And if I should tell you to leave and never return to my world?

PICARD: We will leave and never return. Chancellor, we are here only to
help guide you into a new era. I can assure you we will not interfere
in the natural development of your planet. That is, in fact, our Prime
Directive. 
DURKEN: I can infer from that directive that you do not intend to share
all this exceptional technology with us. 
PICARD: That is not the whole meaning, but it is part of it. 
DURKEN: Is this your way of maintaining superiority? 
PICARD: Chancellor, to instantly transform a society with technology
would be harmful and it would be destructive, 
DURKEN: You're right, of course. I'm overwhelmed, Captain Picard. I'm
quite overwhelmed. I go home each night to a loving wife, two beautiful
daughters. We eat the evening meal together as a family, I think that's
important. And they always ask me if I've had a good day. 
PICARD: And how shall you answer them tonight, Chancellor? 
DURKEN: I will have to say this morning, I was the leader of the
universe as I knew it. This afternoon, I am only a voice in a chorus.
But I think it was a good day.

