TROI LAFORGE WORF PICARD LEAH RIKER GUINAN CRUSHER DATA

[Jefferies tube]

(they are both on hands and knees, in brown
overalls) 
LAFORGE: Here we go. Power taps. Watch yourself. 
LEAH: The acoustic signature doesn't sound right. 
LAFORGE: You're probably the only other person in the galaxy who could
pick that up. 
LEAH: What's causing it? 
LAFORGE: It's right up here. 
LEAH: I've never seen anything like this before. What is it? 
LAFORGE: It's a mid-range phase adjuster. Puts the plasma back into
phase after inertial distortion. 
LEAH: This has never been done before. I don't even think this has ever
been conceived of before. You should write a scientific paper. 
LAFORGE: Uh-uh, Doctor, no. Writing is not one of my strong suits. 
LEAH: But this kind of refinement should be shared, and you deserve the
credit for it. 
LAFORGE: Well, maybe we could collaborate. Writing is one of your
strong points. 
LEAH: Commander La Forge, ever since I came on board, there seems to be
something a little peculiar about your attitude. You seem to know
things about me, even though we've never met. 
LAFORGE: Well, to tell you the truth, I've studied you. Your writings,
your Starfleet file. I've admired you. You know, your work. 
LEAH: Well, I'm flattered, but. 
LAFORGE: And, well, I really, I really wanted to meet you for a long
time, And I'd like to think that we could become friends. Maybe good
friends. 
LEAH: I thought you knew. I mean, you know everything else about me,
but Commander, if I'm hearing what I think I'm hearing, then you should
know that I'm married. 
[Bridge]

CRUSHER: Set phaser power to three percent, narrow
beam. 
WORF: Three percent. 
CRUSHER: All right, here we go. 
(the phaser cuts across the pulsating belly) 
DATA: The first incision is complete. 
CRUSHER: Ideally the offspring should now be able to push through the
outer shell of the parent by itself. 
RIKER: I think it needs a little more help. 
CRUSHER: We've done all we can. I don't want to risk hitting the
offspring by accident. 
TROI: Come on. You can do it. 
(and out slips a miniature version of the space creature) 
CRUSHER: Captain, I'd like to announce the birth of a large baby
something. 
PICARD: Well done, Doctor. Well done.

[Ten Forward]

(playing chess with Guinan) 
LAFORGE: How could it have been so far off? It was based on every piece
of information on record about Leah Brahms. Okay, with an admitted
margin for error. but this is an error that's a light year wide. 
GUINAN: Not what you hoped for, huh? 
LAFORGE: Hoped? Guinan, the woman is about as friendly as a Circassian
plague cat, only cares about her work, hates what I've done to her
engines, and to top it off she's married. Computer never even told me
she was married. 
GUINAN: Computer glitch? 
LAFORGE: Must have been. 
GUINAN: Maybe it was your old visor. 
LAFORGE: What are you talking about? 
GUINAN: The one you wore when you were on the holodeck with her. 
LAFORGE: Guinan, it's the same visor. 
GUINAN: Really? Oh, I figured it was probably the one that lets you see
what you want to see. 
LAFORGE: What's that supposed to mean? 
GUINAN: You saw exactly what you wanted to see in the holodeck. Sure,
the computer made it look like her, gave it personality, but when it
came to the relationship. La Forge, you filled in the blanks. And you
had a perfectly wonderful, marvellous little fantasy. until the real
Leah showed up and ruined it. She's probably done the most horrific
thing one person can do to another, not live up to your expectations.
So I'd take a good, hard, long look at her, La Forge. See her for who
she is, not for what you want her to be.

