TROI LAFORGE WORF PICARD LEAH RIKER GUINAN CRUSHER DATA RAGER
door look thing married greater field error maintaining personality

[Ten Forward]

(playing chess with Guinan) 
LAFORGE: How could it have been so far off? It was based on every piece
of information on record about Leah Brahms. Okay, with an admitted
margin for error. but this is an error that's a light year wide. 
GUINAN: Not what you hoped for, huh? 
LAFORGE: Hoped? Guinan, the woman is about as friendly as a Circassian
plague cat, only cares about her work, hates what I've done to her
engines, and to top it off she's married. Computer never even told me
she was married. 
GUINAN: Computer glitch? 
LAFORGE: Must have been. 
GUINAN: Maybe it was your old visor. 
LAFORGE: What are you talking about? 
GUINAN: The one you wore when you were on the holodeck with her. 
LAFORGE: Guinan, it's the same visor. 
GUINAN: Really? Oh, I figured it was probably the one that lets you see
what you want to see. 
LAFORGE: What's that supposed to mean? 
GUINAN: You saw exactly what you wanted to see in the holodeck. Sure,
the computer made it look like her, gave it personality, but when it
came to the relationship. La Forge, you filled in the blanks. And you
had a perfectly wonderful, marvellous little fantasy. until the real
Leah showed up and ruined it. She's probably done the most horrific
thing one person can do to another, not live up to your expectations.
So I'd take a good, hard, long look at her, La Forge. See her for who
she is, not for what you want her to be.

[Bridge]

DATA: The life form's patterns are stable, Captain.
It seems able to withstand the solar radiation. 
PICARD: Good. Ensign, set course for the Guernica system. 
RAGER: Aye, sir. 
RIKER: We're not staying? 
PICARD: No, Number One. We've done all we can to help. Now it's time to
move on. This creature can continue its
existence without any further interference from us. 
RIKER: It might be wise to put some distance between us before we
initiate warp drive. 
PICARD: Very well. Five hundred kph. Ensign. Engage. 
WORF: Captain, it is following us. Maintaining a distance of four
kilometres, directly astern. 
PICARD: Seventeen degrees to port, Ensign. 
RAGER: Aye, sir. 
WORF: It is turning with us, sir. 
RIKER: Increase to half impulse. 
WORF: It is matching our velocity. 
TROI: It's imprinted on us. It thinks the Enterprise is its mother. 
DATA: A change in energy readings, sir. I am reading an internal
buildup of gamma particles in 
WORF: Its velocity is increasing. It is moving directly toward the
ship. 
PICARD: Evasive manoeuvres, full. 
(shudder) 
RIKER: Report. 
WORF: Minor damage. 
DATA: The creature is now in direct contact with the hull, sir. 
PICARD: On screen. 
(Baby is sitting at the back of the saucer section, the lights
fluctuate) 
PICARD: Mister Data? 
DATA: Sir, the life form is draining energy directly from the fusion
reactors. 
TROI: It's feeding off the energy of the Enterprise as it would from
its mother. 
WORF: What action should we take, sir? 
PICARD: None, Lieutenant. None at all.

Captain's log, supplemental. Since the newborn has
attached itself to the hull, it has been making greater and greater
demands on the ship's energy, but we have been able to stabilise our
power systems temporarily.

[Observation lounge]

PICARD: How long before the power drain becomes
critical, Mister La Forge? 
LAFORGE: If it continues to increase at the current rate, six, maybe
seven hours. 
LEAH: We may be able to modify the engine to extend that a little
longer, Captain. 
PICARD: Your help would be appreciated, Doctor. 
LAFORGE: By then, Junior may not need us any more. 
PICARD: Mister Data, is there any way to determine what the destination
of the parent might have been? 
DATA: I can attempt to extrapolate from the heading it was on when we
encountered it, sir. 
CRUSHER: Perhaps it was its way to a safe and supportive environment
for its newborn. 
PICARD: We might be able to deliver it to the same destination. 
RIKER: Which brings up the question of how do we get Junior off the
hull once we get there. 
LEAH: It's almost completely covering the door of shuttlebay two. If we
open the door and deactivate the atmospheric force field. 
LAFORGE: the pressure from inside the ship might push it away from the
hull. 
PICARD: Make it so. 
DATA: Sir, is the appellation Junior to be the life form's official
name? 
PICARD: No, it is not.

