RIKER LAFORGE WORF PICARD LEAH TROI COMPUTER CRUSHER DATA
kind ll hungry guitar matter state want signature wonder

[La Forge's quarters]

(Geordi is laying the table for dinner) 
LAFORGE: Okay. Computer, subdued lighting. No, that's too much. I don't
want it dark, I want it cozy. 
COMPUTER: Please state your request in precise candlepower. 
LAFORGE: See, it's not a matter of precision, computer, it's a matter
of mood. Brighter than this. More. More. A little more. Hold. Right
there. Perfect. Now, some music. Maybe a little soft jazz. No, that's
not right. Let me think here. Oh, I got it! Some Brahms! A piano etude.
Nah, that's too corny. Probably everybody thinks of that. Computer,
just give me some guitar. Classical guitar. Doesn't matter who. Yes,
thank you. 
(Doorbell) 
LAFORGE: Come on in. 
(Leah enters) 
LEAH: Oh, you've changed. 
LAFORGE: Yeah. The uniforms are so formal. 
LEAH: You're less formal than any Starfleet officer I've ever met,
Commander. 
LAFORGE: Am I? I really just wanted to make you feel more comfortable. 
LEAH: I'm fine. Thank you. 
LAFORGE: I'm sorry. Come in and have a seat. Can I get you a drink? 
LEAH: No, thank you. 
LAFORGE: You sure? You know, your hair, it's different. 
LEAH: Different than a few hours ago? 
LAFORGE: No, I mean it's different than I expected. Different from your
Starfleet records. 
LEAH: Oh. Yes, I used to wear it up. 
LAFORGE: Yeah. 
LEAH: Why would you need to see my personnel file? 
LAFORGE: Standard procedure when guests come on board. Protocol. I
mean, it was nothing specific, actually. Just, you know. 
LEAH: Commander La Forge, if I seem to be somewhat unyielding in my
views, it's because I care so very much about my work. 
LAFORGE: Oh, I know. 
LEAH: To be honest, people find me cold, cerebral, lacking in humour. 
LAFORGE: But they're wrong, I assure you. 
LEAH: Well, I try not to be that way, but when it comes to my designs,
my engines, especially the ones on the Enterprise. 
LAFORGE: It's like they're your children. 
LEAH: Yes. Exactly. 
LAFORGE: So naturally you're a little possessive about them. 
LEAH: You understand that? 
LAFORGE: Yes, I do. You see, I feel the same way. 
LEAH: That's amazing. I don't think anyone has ever. Sometimes I feel
more comfortable with engine schematics than people. 
LAFORGE: Well, maybe you just haven't met the right people. You hungry?
I'm hungry. Why don't I just start dinner, okay? 
LEAH: Commander. 
LAFORGE: Please, call me Geordi. 
LEAH: I'm sorry, I hope that I didn't put you to a lot of trouble but I
can't stay. 
LAFORGE: You can't? 
LEAH: I just don't think that it's appropriate. 
LAFORGE: Oh. 
LEAH: I'll meet with you at oh eight hundred tomorrow. I'm preparing a
list of discrepancies that I've identified in your modifications. I
hope, now that we've reached an understanding that you'll be prepared
to discuss them with me in a more objective fashion. 
LAFORGE: Sure. Fine. 
LEAH: Thank you. Goodnight, Commander. 
(Leah leaves) 
LAFORGE: Goodnight. 
[Bridge]

DATA: This new concentration of energy was detected
only after the surrounding material became inert. 
RIKER: Could this be some sort of tissue regeneration? 
DATA: The radiation signature is similar to the original pattern, but
with significant differences. 
PICARD: Some kind of reaction to our phaser fire, perhaps. 
DATA: I believe it is separate and self-contained within the body of
the dead life form. 
RIKER: Another entity. 
DATA: Yes, sir. It appears to be a smaller, less developed version of
the original creature. 
PICARD: No wonder it attacked us. It was about to give birth.

[Observation lounge]

PICARD: Doctor. 
CRUSHER: It's dangerous to generalise about new life forms, but based
on my experience with other beings who bear their young in this manner,
I'd say that the offspring is still premature. Otherwise, it would be
able to break through the outer body shell of the parent. 
PICARD: Will this creature be able to survive on its own without the
parent? 
CRUSHER: There's no way to tell. We don't have enough information about
the bio-functions of the adult, much less the child. 
TROI: Is there something we can do to help? 
CRUSHER: If we were in Sickbay, I'd try a Caesarean section. The first
priority is to free it from the body of the parent. 
RIKER: We could use our phasers as a scalpel. 
CRUSHER: Yes, that might work. 
WORF: I advise against this, Captain. The parent proved to be a threat
to the ship. We do not know how the offspring will react. 
PICARD: Your objection is noted, Mister Worf, but we are directly
responsible for the death of the parent. We cannot simply wash our
hands of it now. Doctor, we will proceed at your discretion.

