RIKER LAFORGE WORF PICARD LEAH DATA RAGER
bulky great love probed drive day harsher having listen

[Bridge]

DATA: The anomaly is orbiting the seventh planet,
sir. It is a mass of plasma energy contained within discrete boundaries
by an outer covering of silicates, actinides, and carbonaceous
chondrites. 
PICARD: On screen. Magnify. Is it a ship? 
WORF: It does not conform to any known design. 
RIKER: Any records of similar phenomena in Starfleet listings? 
DATA: None, sir. This has never been seen before. 
PICARD: Ensign Rager, ahead one quarter impulse. 
RAGER: Aye, sir. 
PICARD: Put us in orbit of the seventh planet. Keep us at a relative
distance of ten kilometres from the object. 
RIKER: Alert science stations to standby. Tell them to coordinate all
efforts with Commander Data. 
WORF: Aye, sir.

[Engineering]

(gazing at the dilithium cradle) 
LEAH: What happened here? Who did this? 
LAFORGE: You remember, the crystal's been reoriented to adjust the
direction of the lattice structure. 
LEAH: Remember? Why would I remember? 
LAFORGE: Right, why would you? Well, the ship was experiencing some
difficulty, and we made this adjustment hoping that it would work, and
it did. 
LEAH: So it was your idea? 
LAFORGE: Not exclusively, no. 
LEAH: It's curious. this modification was due to be introduced. 
LAFORGE: In the next class starship. 
LEAH: Yes. How did you know? 
LAFORGE: I didn't. I mean, well, it's the next logical step, right?
Listen, Doctor, sometimes we have to fly by the seat of our pants out
here so it stands to reason that once in a while we're going to come up
with the same solutions you do. Listen. I've got a personnel
review scheduled to start in about five minutes, and I know it's been a
long day for you. So, why don't we get together later? Sort of plan our
agenda for the next day or two? 
LEAH: Agenda? 
LAFORGE: What it is we want to accomplish here, how we might best go
about that, maybe even get to know each other a little bit. It might
make this easier. 
LEAH: Maybe you're right. 
LAFORGE: Okay, great. How about my quarters. Nineteen hundred hours?
Maybe even have a bite to eat? I make a great fungilli. 
LEAH: I love fungilli. 
LAFORGE: Is that right?

[Bridge]

DATA: Sensors are having difficulty penetrating the
interior. However, the radiated output suggests a coherent system of
energy storage and utilisation. 
RIKER: Then it was constructed by someone? 
DATA: It is a possibility. However, the sensor data gathered thus far
suggests a naturally occurring phenomenon with biological properties. 
PICARD: A life form. 
DATA: Yes, Captain. 
RIKER: Mister Worf, begin compiling readings for transmission to
Starfleet Headquarters. Mister Data, prepare to launch three level-five
probes. Ensign, aft thrusters. Standard observation posture. 
DATA: Level-five probe sequence ready for launch, Commander. On your
mark. 
(Troi enters) 
RIKER: Stand by, Mister Data. 
DATA: Aye, sir. PICARD: What would it be like, Counsellor? No ship, no
bulky spacesuit. Just to live between the stars, have the entire galaxy
as a home. 
(green energy sweeps out from the creature to the Enterprise) 
WORF: Captain, we are being probed. Recommend we raise shields. 
PICARD: Negative, Mister Worf. If we are curious about it, it has a
perfect right to be curious about us. 
DATA: Change in readings, sir. The life form has increased its energy
output by fifty percent. 
WORF: It is moving toward us. 
PICARD: Reverse course, Ensign, three hundred kph. 
RAGER: Aye, sir. 
PICARD: Easy, we don't want to alarm or provoke it. 
(harsher green energy crackles against the ship) 
DATA: We are caught in an energy damping field, sir. 
PICARD: Raise shields. 
WORF: No effect, Captain. 
PICARD: Reverse power, full impulse. 
RAGER: Impulse engines at full power. 
DATA: No change in position. 
RIKER: Red alert! 
PICARD: Mister La Forge, prepare to initiate warp drive.

