RIKER LAFORGE WORF PICARD LAFORGE [OC] PAVLIK [OC] DATA RAGER
status proceed quantities completed asteroids mark hull offline increasing

[Bridge]

WORF: Captain, its total volume has increased by
eight point five percent in the last three hours. I now read it at
forty six million cubic metres. 
DATA: Captain, I have completed the analysis of the parent's course
through this system. 
RIKER: It was headed for an asteroid belt. 
PICARD: Ensign Rager, set course two five nine mark three one eight,
half impulse. 
RAGER: Aye, sir. 
PICARD: Hold a position five hundred kilometres from the periphery of
the asteroid field. 
RAGER: Aye, sir. 
WORF: Difficulty getting a clear sensor reading beyond four thousand
kilometres. 
DATA: The asteroids contain large quantities of meklonite, which is
interfering with our scanners. I am also detecting traces of kephneum,
a compound found in the outer shell of the parent being. It is likely
the asteroids provide sustenance for this lifeform, sir. 
RIKER: We could leave the child here. If Data's right, it would have an
ample supply of food. 
PICARD: Agreed. Mister La Forge, are you ready to separate our guest
from the hull? 
LAFORGE [OC]: Ready, Captain. 
PICARD: Proceed.

[Shuttlebay control booth]

(looking down on the empty bay) 
LAFORGE: I am deactivating the atmospheric force field now. 
(the decompression ripples the alien body) 
[Bridge]

PICARD: Engineering, report. 
PAVLIK [OC]: Power drain just jumped to ninety three percent, sir. 
DATA: Captain, the offspring is emitting high frequency radio
transmissions. 
RIKER: Is it trying to communicate? 
PAVLIK [OC]: The power drain is increasing, Approaching auto-shutdown. 
RIKER: Take the engines offline. Supplement with auxiliary power only.
All decks go to emergency level seven. Life support and critical
operations only. 
PICARD: Mister La Forge, what is your status? 
LAFORGE [OC]: Sorry, Captain.

[Shuttlebay control booth]

LAFORGE: The bay's been completely depressurised,
but it's still hanging on.

