TROI LAFORGE WORF PICARD LEAH RIKER CRUSHER DATA
sound worf involved hearing uh phase acoustic friends really

[Engineering]

LEAH: Good morning. 
LAFORGE: Good morning. 
LEAH: The first thing I'd like to do is inspect the power transfer
conduits. 
LAFORGE: You realise the only way to inspect them is to crawl inside. 
LEAH: I designed them, Commander. I know what's involved.

[Jefferies tube]

(they are both on hands and knees, in brown
overalls) 
LAFORGE: Here we go. Power taps. Watch yourself. 
LEAH: The acoustic signature doesn't sound right. 
LAFORGE: You're probably the only other person in the galaxy who could
pick that up. 
LEAH: What's causing it? 
LAFORGE: It's right up here. 
LEAH: I've never seen anything like this before. What is it? 
LAFORGE: It's a mid-range phase adjuster. Puts the plasma back into
phase after inertial distortion. 
LEAH: This has never been done before. I don't even think this has ever
been conceived of before. You should write a scientific paper. 
LAFORGE: Uh-uh, Doctor, no. Writing is not one of my strong suits. 
LEAH: But this kind of refinement should be shared, and you deserve the
credit for it. 
LAFORGE: Well, maybe we could collaborate. Writing is one of your
strong points. 
LEAH: Commander La Forge, ever since I came on board, there seems to be
something a little peculiar about your attitude. You seem to know
things about me, even though we've never met. 
LAFORGE: Well, to tell you the truth, I've studied you. Your writings,
your Starfleet file. I've admired you. You know, your work. 
LEAH: Well, I'm flattered, but. 
LAFORGE: And, well, I really, I really wanted to meet you for a long
time, And I'd like to think that we could become friends. Maybe good
friends. 
LEAH: I thought you knew. I mean, you know everything else about me,
but Commander, if I'm hearing what I think I'm hearing, then you should
know that I'm married. 
[Bridge]

CRUSHER: Set phaser power to three percent, narrow
beam. 
WORF: Three percent. 
CRUSHER: All right, here we go. 
(the phaser cuts across the pulsating belly) 
DATA: The first incision is complete. 
CRUSHER: Ideally the offspring should now be able to push through the
outer shell of the parent by itself. 
RIKER: I think it needs a little more help. 
CRUSHER: We've done all we can. I don't want to risk hitting the
offspring by accident. 
TROI: Come on. You can do it. 
(and out slips a miniature version of the space creature) 
CRUSHER: Captain, I'd like to announce the birth of a large baby
something. 
PICARD: Well done, Doctor. Well done.

