RIKER LAFORGE WORF PICARD LEAH DATA RAGER

[Engineering]

LAFORGE: Doctor Brahms, there's no reason for us to
argue. We're on the same side here. 
LEAH: I'm aware of that. 
LAFORGE: So, why don't I take you on a little tour, show you the
adjustments I've made, why I think they work and we can begin pulling
together on this? Okay. Then why not start with the dilithium chamber.
Okay? 
LEAH: Okay. 
[Bridge]

DATA: The anomaly is orbiting the seventh planet,
sir. It is a mass of plasma energy contained within discrete boundaries
by an outer covering of silicates, actinides, and carbonaceous
chondrites. 
PICARD: On screen. Magnify. Is it a ship? 
WORF: It does not conform to any known design. 
RIKER: Any records of similar phenomena in Starfleet listings? 
DATA: None, sir. This has never been seen before. 
PICARD: Ensign Rager, ahead one quarter impulse. 
RAGER: Aye, sir. 
PICARD: Put us in orbit of the seventh planet. Keep us at a relative
distance of ten kilometres from the object. 
RIKER: Alert science stations to standby. Tell them to coordinate all
efforts with Commander Data. 
WORF: Aye, sir.

[Engineering]

(gazing at the dilithium cradle) 
LEAH: What happened here? Who did this? 
LAFORGE: You remember, the crystal's been reoriented to adjust the
direction of the lattice structure. 
LEAH: Remember? Why would I remember? 
LAFORGE: Right, why would you? Well, the ship was experiencing some
difficulty, and we made this adjustment hoping that it would work, and
it did. 
LEAH: So it was your idea? 
LAFORGE: Not exclusively, no. 
LEAH: It's curious. this modification was due to be introduced. 
LAFORGE: In the next class starship. 
LEAH: Yes. How did you know? 
LAFORGE: I didn't. I mean, well, it's the next logical step, right?
Listen, Doctor, sometimes we have to fly by the seat of our pants out
here so it stands to reason that once in a while we're going to come up
with the same solutions you do. Listen. I've got a personnel
review scheduled to start in about five minutes, and I know it's been a
long day for you. So, why don't we get together later? Sort of plan our
agenda for the next day or two? 
LEAH: Agenda? 
LAFORGE: What it is we want to accomplish here, how we might best go
about that, maybe even get to know each other a little bit. It might
make this easier. 
LEAH: Maybe you're right. 
LAFORGE: Okay, great. How about my quarters. Nineteen hundred hours?
Maybe even have a bite to eat? I make a great fungilli. 
LEAH: I love fungilli. 
LAFORGE: Is that right?

