PICARD GUINAN LAFORGE
modifications good exemplary visit studied able face senior friends

[Ready room]

PICARD: Come. 
LAFORGE: You wanted to see me, Captain? 
PICARD: Yes, Mister La Forge. It seems that the exemplary nature of
your work has caught the attention of Starfleet Command. In fact,
someone is coming on board just to see the engine modifications you've
made. 
LAFORGE: Who, Captain? 
PICARD: The Senior Design Engineer of the Theoretical Propulsion Group.
Doctor Leah Brahms. 
LAFORGE: Leah is coming here? This is terrific. 
PICARD: It is? 
LAFORGE: Well, I mean, I've studied her schematics for years. She was
responsible for a lot of the engine design on the Enterprise. 
PICARD: Well, it should be a very enjoyable visit, then. She'll be
transporting on board as soon as we reach the Starbase. Would you like
to greet her on our behalf? 
LAFORGE: I would love to, Captain. Thank you.

[Ten Forward]

(Geordi is brushing non-existent dust off his
shoulders) 
GUINAN: If you keep picking at that uniform you'll wear it out. 
LAFORGE: I guess I am a little nervous. It's not every day a man comes
face to face with his dream. 
GUINAN: What? 
LAFORGE: You remember about a year ago when we were caught in that
booby trap the Menthars set? Okay. While we were trying to get out of
it, I went down to the holodeck to study an engine prototype that was
made when the Enterprise was first designed. And the computer, well, it
gave me an image of the engine but it also created this hologram of the
designer. Doctor Leah Brahms. 
GUINAN: So you met a computer-simulated female. 
LAFORGE: Yeah, but not an ordinary computer-simulated female. I mean,
she was brilliant, of course, but warm, you know? Friendly. It' was
like we worked as one. I would start a sentences, she'd finish it. What
I didn't think of, she did. It was just so comfortable. Okay, I know it
was just a holographic image but the computer was able
to incorporate personality traits from her Starfleet record. 
GUINAN: You know, Geordi, everybody falls in love with a fantasy every
now and then. 
LAFORGE: No, no, Guinan, see, you've got it all wrong. I'm not
necessarily expecting anything romantic here. It's just I know
whatever, Leah Brahms and I are going to be good friends.

