PICARD CRUSHER DATA MEDIC

[Riker's quarters]

(a very twitchy Riker gets into bed, barely shuts
his eyes and then rips the sheets back to reveal snakes around his
legs. He leaps out of bed again, and of course there is nothing there)

[Ready room]

DATA: Commander La Forge and I have come up with a
potential solution to our predicament. Perhaps the modifications used
to increase firepower against the Borg could be effective here. 
PICARD: Channelling power to the main, er, deflector dish. 
DATA: Yes, sir. I believe that within six hours we could generate a
concentrated burst of energy which might disrupt the Tyken's rift. 
PICARD: Very well. Proceed. Mister Data? 
DATA: Yes, sir? 
PICARD: It appears that I am not immune to the strange forces that are
at work on this ship. 
DATA: Yes, sir. 
PICARD: It's a terrifying prospect to lose control of one's mind. When
I was young, I remember watching my grandfather deteriorate from a
powerful, intelligent figure to a frail wisp of a man, who could barely
make his own way home. Mister Data, it is my responsibility somehow to
see that this ship is guided to safety. I will need to rely on you from
now on. We may need to count on you for our very survival. 
DATA: I will do my best, sir.

[Morgue]

(Beverly has a medic with her) 
CRUSHER: I'd like to do more cross-sections on the brain tissue of some
of these bodies. Set up the positron emission sensor in Sickbay, and
I'll decide which ones I want to study. 
MEDIC: Yes, Doctor. 
(the medic leaves. Beverly starts scanning a woman, then hears a
rustling behind her. She goes to another, and hears something again.
She looks behind her, and all the bodies are sitting upright in their
shrouds. She closes her eyes) 
CRUSHER: Go away. 
(and when she opens them again, everything is as it should be)

[Ready room]

CRUSHER: Captain, let me ask you this. Since we
located the Brittain, can you remember any of your dreams? 
PICARD: I hardly ever recall dreams. 
CRUSHER: Most people don't, but think. Have you even had a dream in the
last ten days? 
PICARD: I don't recall. 
CRUSHER: I'm willing to bet you haven't. What's more, neither has
anyone else on board this ship, except for Troi. I began to realise
that when she talked about having nightmares. I've done some additional
brain tissue tests on, er, bodies, some of the bodies from the, er,
the. 
DATA: The Brittain, Doctor. 
CRUSHER: Right. And I've also done some scans on a random cross-section
from our crew. They both have the same results, a unique chemical
imbalance. 
PICARD: Caused by? 
CRUSHER: Dream deprivation. Every night when we enter into sleep. 
DATA: I believe the Doctor means is that humans enter what is known as
REM sleep. Rapid eye movement. It is the level of
brain wave activity at which one dreams. 
CRUSHER: We have to dream in order to survive. If we don't reach REM
sleep, we don't dream, we begin to lose our cognitive abilities, we
find it hard to concentrate. We forget how to do the most ordinary
task. Then we become irritable, paranoid. Some people experience
hallucinations. 
PICARD: You're describing the situation on this ship. But Counsellor
Troi reported nightmares. 
CRUSHER: Maybe it's because she's Betazoid. I don't know why. All I
know is there's more going on here than being caught in a Tyken's rift,
and I don't know how or why it's happening. But I do know this. There
is an inevitable conclusion to this pattern, and if I can't find a way
to stop it, we will all go insane.

[Sickbay]

(Troi is sitting by Hagan's bedside, falling
asleep) 
