TROI OBRIEN PICARD GUINAN CRUSHER DATA GILLESPIE

[Ready room]

TROI: REM sleep occurs at a different frequency for
Betazoids than other humanoids. I believe the beings are using that
frequency to communicate telepathically. 
DATA: It is possible that this telepathic communication is creating
interference in the REM sleep of other species. That would explain why
the rest of our crew is not dreaming. 
PICARD: Counsellor, what are these beings trying to tell us? 
TROI: They're calling for help. I think they're trapped just like we
are. Eyes in the dark could mean this twin star system. 
DATA: Your hypothesis is certainly plausible. There may be another ship
on the other side of the fissure, where we cannot detect it. 
CRUSHER: Is there a way we could block their signals? 
DATA: There is no technology to block telepathic transmissions, Doctor.

TROI: Maybe communication through dreams can work both ways. I could
try to get them to stop. 
DATA: Perhaps we can accomplish more than that. If there is another
ship, and we can reach them, we might be able to coordinate our efforts
to free ourselves. 
TROI: It is conceivable. When working with patients with debilitating
nightmares, I've often used a
therapeutic treatment called directed dreaming. Dreamers can learn to
control of their dreams, retain a conscious memory even while in REM
sleep. I could remember a short message and deliver it to them. 
PICARD: If it were possible, what would you say?

[Bridge]

(science station readout LCARS 40274, scrolling
through molecules) 
DATA: Working together with the aliens, we must discover a means by
which we an produce an explosion more intense than either one of us
could achieve alone. 
TROI: What is it you're looking for? 
DATA: These are the elements we have available. Some of them could be
used in the creation of an explosive reaction. If we could communicate
this inventory to the other ship, perhaps they would be able to 
TROI: No, Data, no. This is too complex. This has to be a simple, clear
message. 
DATA: I am uncertain if a simple transmission will be adequate. 
TROI: Stop. Go back. Further back. There. Stop. One moon circles. 
DATA: Yes, Counsellor. One electron circles one proton. This is a
hydrogen atom. 
TROI: One moon circles. That's what they've been telling me over and
over. 
DATA: Perhaps the aliens are thinking as we are, to collaborate in
producing an explosion. If hydrogen is combined with another element,
calendenium for example, it is extremely volatile. But would the
message mean they have hydrogen or they want hydrogen? 
TROI: Well, if it's a distress call, I think they'd be asking for what
they need, not what they already have. 
DATA: Then the proper course of action would be to release hydrogen
into the rift, and hope that they have a substance that will detonate
it. 
TROI: How do I tell them what to do? 
DATA: If you are correct, Counsellor, I believe they have already told
us what to do and are waiting for us to do it. When we are ready, the
only message you should attempt to convey is, now.

[Sickbay]

CRUSHER: I can help keep you in REM sleep for a
while with this cortical scanner. It will maintain electrical activity
in your brain at the proper frequency. 
(Troi lies down on a bed) 
DATA [OC]: Counsellor

[Bridge]

DATA: You will have to communicate with the other
ship within two minutes of entering REM sleep. 
TROI [OC]: Two minutes. 
[Sickbay]

TROI: Is that all, Data? 
DATA [OC]: Unfortunately, yes. 
[Bridge]

DATA: We have only enough power to emit a hydrogen
stream for that amount of time. They must understand that they will
have to detonate it immediately. Captain, we are ready to implement the
plan. 
PICARD: Proceed. 
DATA: We will have to draw power from the life-support systems in order
to discharge the collectors. This is Acting Captain Data. All personnel
will report to designated shelter areas

[Ten Forward]

DATA [OC]: Immediately. Life support systems will
continue only in emergency shelter areas. 
GILLESPIE: Hear that? Get us jammed into shelter areas. We sit and wait
to die. Nobody'll ever find us. 
GUINAN: Relax, Gillespie. Everybody relax. Ten Forward is a designated
shelter area. Relax. 
GILLESPIE: Do we want to die here like helpless children? 
GUINAN: Security to Ten Forward immediately. 
GILLESPIE: We don't even know what we're dying for. 
O'BRIEN: Sit down, Gillespie. You're not helping matters any. 
GILLESPIE: What's wrong with standing up for ourselves? 
(Security arrive) 
GILLESPIE: Picard owes us some answers. 
(Gillespie thumps O'Brien, the security men join in and there's a
brawl. Guinan gets a Big Gun from behind the bar and fires at the
ceiling)
GILLESPIE: What is that? 
GUINAN: It's a little souvenir I picked up on Magus Three. That was
setting number one. Anyone want to see setting number two? 
