TROI OBRIEN PICARD GUINAN CRUSHER DATA GILLESPIE

[Bridge]

(science station readout LCARS 40274, scrolling
through molecules) 
DATA: Working together with the aliens, we must discover a means by
which we an produce an explosion more intense than either one of us
could achieve alone. 
TROI: What is it you're looking for? 
DATA: These are the elements we have available. Some of them could be
used in the creation of an explosive reaction. If we could communicate
this inventory to the other ship, perhaps they would be able to 
TROI: No, Data, no. This is too complex. This has to be a simple, clear
message. 
DATA: I am uncertain if a simple transmission will be adequate. 
TROI: Stop. Go back. Further back. There. Stop. One moon circles. 
DATA: Yes, Counsellor. One electron circles one proton. This is a
hydrogen atom. 
TROI: One moon circles. That's what they've been telling me over and
over. 
DATA: Perhaps the aliens are thinking as we are, to collaborate in
producing an explosion. If hydrogen is combined with another element,
calendenium for example, it is extremely volatile. But would the
message mean they have hydrogen or they want hydrogen? 
TROI: Well, if it's a distress call, I think they'd be asking for what
they need, not what they already have. 
DATA: Then the proper course of action would be to release hydrogen
into the rift, and hope that they have a substance that will detonate
it. 
TROI: How do I tell them what to do? 
DATA: If you are correct, Counsellor, I believe they have already told
us what to do and are waiting for us to do it. When we are ready, the
only message you should attempt to convey is, now.

[Sickbay]

CRUSHER: I can help keep you in REM sleep for a
while with this cortical scanner. It will maintain electrical activity
in your brain at the proper frequency. 
(Troi lies down on a bed) 
DATA [OC]: Counsellor

[Bridge]

DATA: You will have to communicate with the other
ship within two minutes of entering REM sleep. 
TROI [OC]: Two minutes. 
[Sickbay]

TROI: Is that all, Data? 
DATA [OC]: Unfortunately, yes. 
[Bridge]

DATA: We have only enough power to emit a hydrogen
stream for that amount of time. They must understand that they will
have to detonate it immediately. Captain, we are ready to implement the
plan. 
PICARD: Proceed. 
DATA: We will have to draw power from the life-support systems in order
to discharge the collectors. This is Acting Captain Data. All personnel
will report to designated shelter areas

[Ten Forward]

DATA [OC]: Immediately. Life support systems will
continue only in emergency shelter areas. 
GILLESPIE: Hear that? Get us jammed into shelter areas. We sit and wait
to die. Nobody'll ever find us. 
GUINAN: Relax, Gillespie. Everybody relax. Ten Forward is a designated
shelter area. Relax. 
GILLESPIE: Do we want to die here like helpless children? 
GUINAN: Security to Ten Forward immediately. 
GILLESPIE: We don't even know what we're dying for. 
O'BRIEN: Sit down, Gillespie. You're not helping matters any. 
GILLESPIE: What's wrong with standing up for ourselves? 
(Security arrive) 
GILLESPIE: Picard owes us some answers. 
(Gillespie thumps O'Brien, the security men join in and there's a
brawl. Guinan gets a Big Gun from behind the bar and fires at the
ceiling)
GILLESPIE: What is that? 
GUINAN: It's a little souvenir I picked up on Magus Three. That was
setting number one. Anyone want to see setting number two? 
[Sickbay]

CRUSHER: PGO signals steady. Visual cortex showing
increased activity. Rapid eye movements commencing. Crusher to Bridge. 
