TROI TROI [OC] WORF DATA [OC] PICARD HAGAN [OC] SECURITY CRUSHER DATA
reaction longer double reach coordinate know need voice remember

[Worf's quarters]

(Worf takes an ornate dagger from a box, anoints it
with wine) 
WORF: lujpu' jiH'e, Alexandrijn. 
(he prepares to plunge the dagger into his throat when Troi runs in) 
TROI: Worf, no! 
WORF: You will not stop me. 
TROI: Security to Lieutenant Worf's quarters, immediately. 
WORF: No one can stop me. 
TROI: Why? What is it? 
WORF: I am no longer a warrior. I am no longer strong. I feel. 
TROI: What? What do you feel? 
WORF: I feel fear. 
TROI: To admit that you're afraid gives you strength. 
WORF: Something is waiting for us. I am not strong enough to fight it. 
TROI: No, Worf. It's just an illusion. It's not real. Please, put down
the knife. 
(Security arrive) 
SECURITY: Counsellor? 
TROI: It's all right. Everything's fine, thank you. 
(Security leave) 
TROI: Let me take you to Sickbay.

Acting Captain's log, stardate 44642.1. I have
assumed command of the Enterprise at the request of Captain Picard. Our
situation is deteriorating. Many of the crew are unable to function and
our life support systems are beginning to falter.

[Sickbay]

TROI [OC]: Once before you said double. What did
you mean? What is double? 
HAGAN [OC]: Mates, too bright. Twin. Cannot leave the twin. One moon
circling. 
TROI [OC]: What do you mean? you can't leave? 
HAGAN [OC]: No, no, please. Can't. 
TROI [OC]: You want to leave. Why can't you? 
HAGAN [OC]: Can't go. Help. One moon circling. Eyes, that's it. Eyes in
the dark. 
TROI: Eyes in the dark. That's what the voice said in my dream. Is that
where you heard it? In a dream? Over and over? Beverly, I know what it
is. I know what's happening. 
CRUSHER: What? 
TROI: My nightmare. It's not a dream. It's not a dream at all. It's a
message. 
[Ready room]

TROI: REM sleep occurs at a different frequency for
Betazoids than other humanoids. I believe the beings are using that
frequency to communicate telepathically. 
DATA: It is possible that this telepathic communication is creating
interference in the REM sleep of other species. That would explain why
the rest of our crew is not dreaming. 
PICARD: Counsellor, what are these beings trying to tell us? 
TROI: They're calling for help. I think they're trapped just like we
are. Eyes in the dark could mean this twin star system. 
DATA: Your hypothesis is certainly plausible. There may be another ship
on the other side of the fissure, where we cannot detect it. 
CRUSHER: Is there a way we could block their signals? 
DATA: There is no technology to block telepathic transmissions, Doctor.

TROI: Maybe communication through dreams can work both ways. I could
try to get them to stop. 
DATA: Perhaps we can accomplish more than that. If there is another
ship, and we can reach them, we might be able to coordinate our efforts
to free ourselves. 
TROI: It is conceivable. When working with patients with debilitating
nightmares, I've often used a
therapeutic treatment called directed dreaming. Dreamers can learn to
control of their dreams, retain a conscious memory even while in REM
sleep. I could remember a short message and deliver it to them. 
PICARD: If it were possible, what would you say?

[Bridge]

(science station readout LCARS 40274, scrolling
through molecules) 
DATA: Working together with the aliens, we must discover a means by
which we an produce an explosion more intense than either one of us
could achieve alone. 
TROI: What is it you're looking for? 
DATA: These are the elements we have available. Some of them could be
used in the creation of an explosive reaction. If we could communicate
this inventory to the other ship, perhaps they would be able to 
TROI: No, Data, no. This is too complex. This has to be a simple, clear
message. 
DATA: I am uncertain if a simple transmission will be adequate. 
TROI: Stop. Go back. Further back. There. Stop. One moon circles. 
DATA: Yes, Counsellor. One electron circles one proton. This is a
hydrogen atom. 
TROI: One moon circles. That's what they've been telling me over and
over. 
DATA: Perhaps the aliens are thinking as we are, to collaborate in
producing an explosion. If hydrogen is combined with another element,
calendenium for example, it is extremely volatile. But would the
message mean they have hydrogen or they want hydrogen? 
TROI: Well, if it's a distress call, I think they'd be asking for what
they need, not what they already have. 
DATA: Then the proper course of action would be to release hydrogen
into the rift, and hope that they have a substance that will detonate
it. 
TROI: How do I tell them what to do? 
DATA: If you are correct, Counsellor, I believe they have already told
us what to do and are waiting for us to do it. When we are ready, the
only message you should attempt to convey is, now.

[Sickbay]

CRUSHER: I can help keep you in REM sleep for a
while with this cortical scanner. It will maintain electrical activity
in your brain at the proper frequency. 
(Troi lies down on a bed) 
DATA [OC]: Counsellor

[Bridge]

DATA: You will have to communicate with the other
ship within two minutes of entering REM sleep. 
TROI [OC]: Two minutes. 
[Sickbay]

TROI: Is that all, Data? 
DATA [OC]: Unfortunately, yes. 
