RIKER LAFORGE WORF PICARD LIN TROI CRUSHER DATA
reproduce worf utilise propulsion detonate systems using changes generate

[Engineering]

LAFORGE: We don't have warp drive either. 
[Bridge]

PICARD: We have no functional propulsion systems? 
DATA: No, sir. Apparently we do not. 
LIN: We're adrift. 
RIKER: Just like the Brittain.

Captain's log, stardate 44639.9. The Enterprise has
now been adrift for a total of ten days. We have sent subspace distress
calls, but because of our distant location, we cannot expect a response
for at least another two weeks.

[Observation lounge]

DATA: After analysing the sensor logs of the
Brittain and the Enterprise, as well as the data from the last series
of probes, I conclude that we have become trapped in a massive rupture
in space, into which energy is absorbed. 
PICARD: You mean a Tyken's rift. 
CRUSHER: A what? 
DATA: A rare anomaly named after Bela Tyken, the Melthusian captain who
first encountered it. 
LAFORGE: Tyken's rift. That would explain why we don't have engine
power. 
DATA: The ship's energy is being drained into the fissure before we can
utilise it. 
(Worf enters) 
WORF: I was detained. 
DATA: When Tyken was trapped in the rift, his analysis determined that
a massive energy release might overload and dislocate the anomaly.
Fortunately, his cargo included anicium and yurium, which he used to
detonate the explosion. He then escaped through the ruptured centre of
the rift. 
LAFORGE: But we aren't carrying anything that could produce that kind
of explosion. Not even our photon torpedoes would be enough. 
RIKER: Couldn't we replicate the elements that Tyken used? 
DATA: No, sir. We no longer have the power to reproduce complex
elements in the replicator. We must find a way to generate a violent
energy release without using conventional means. 
CRUSHER: Data, in Tyken's experience did the crew exhibit behavioural
changes? 
DATA: No. There were no reports of unusual conduct among the crew. 
TROI: What about nightmares? 
DATA: There were no records of sleep disturbances of any kind,
Counsellor. 
CRUSHER: Then, what is it? What's happening to us?

