RIKER WORF PICARD CRUSHER DATA HEDRICK SUSANNA

[Bridge]

DATA: Captain, the security lockout on Transporter
room six has been broken. 
PICARD: Re-engage now. 
DATA: I cannot, sir. The transporter cycle has already begun.

Captain's log, stardate 44668.1. Doctor Crusher's
research indicates that we have less than an hour before Commander La
Forge's transformation becomes irreversible. However, all attempts to
locate him on the surface have failed. 
[Bridge]

WORF: I do not read any life signs on the surface. 
PICARD: Our sensor array is useless. We must find some other way of
locating him. 
DATA: Captain, if we can get close enough to Geordi, we can read his
absorption spectrum with an ultraviolet light. 
RIKER: Can you modify an emergency beacon to operate on UV? 
DATA: Yes, sir. 
PICARD: Make it so. Number One, as soon as Data is ready, I want you to
lead an away team. 
RIKER: Aye, sir. 
[Engineering]

RIKER: How long, Data? 
DATA: I must replace the emitter module and reconnect the power supply.
It will take approximately two minutes to complete the modification,
sir. 
HEDRICK [OC]: Hedrick to Commander Riker. 
RIKER: Go ahead. 
HEDRICK [OC]: I've been able to determine La Forge's transport
coordinates. He beamed down next to the Aries shuttle. 
RIKER: Acknowledged. He's on foot, couldn't have gotten too far. Let's
assume a radius of ten kilometres. 
WORF: That still leaves a search area of more than three hundred square
kilometres. 
RIKER: We've got to narrow that down. What's happening with the
enhanced sensor arrays? 
WORF: All scans are still negative. 
RIKER: We've got to find a way to track him. What about the
high-resolution EM scans? 
WORF: We are adjusting sensors to read Commander La Forge's absorption
spectrum, but it will take several hours. 
RIKER: Geordi doesn't have several hours. 
DATA: I have completed modifications, Commander. 
RIKER: Excellent. Doctor Crusher, meet us in Transporter room six
immediately.

[Sickbay]

CRUSHER: He's going to need a sedative. Give me ten
cc's of kayolane. 
SUSANNA: Doctor Crusher. 
(some blue veins on her but the skin is now pink and the face is human)

CRUSHER: Say, you look a lot better than you did an hour ago. 
SUSANNA: What did you do? 
CRUSHER: We've removed some kind of parasite from your thymus. 
SUSANNA: No, no, no. It's not a parasite, Doctor. It was their method
of reproduction, to plant a DNA strand in a living host that causes
metamorphosis. Geordi? He's gone? 
CRUSHER: Yes. 
SUSANNA: He's gone back to the planet? 
CRUSHER: Try to stay calm. 
SUSANNA: No, but we have to find him. 
CRUSHER: An away team is preparing to search for him. 
SUSANNA: You'll never be able to find him. I'm the only one who can.

[Tarchannen]

(the away team arrives and switches on their palm
beacons) 
SUSANNA: No, you must turn them off. The light frightens them. 
RIKER: What about the ultraviolet? 
SUSANNA: That's beyond their visual spectrum. They won't run away from
it. 
WORF: He could be several kilometres away by now. 
SUSANNA: No, he's here. They're all here. 
(they walk towards the rocks and bushes) 
SUSANNA: There. 
(Data shines the UV, and three blue-veined humanoids appear. Two run
straight away, one hesitates) 
CRUSHER: Geordi? 
SUSANNA: Geordi, stop! 
(the group give chase) 
SUSANNA: No, wait. 
(she and Data go on alone around the back of the buildings and find one
frightened creature) 
SUSANNA: Geordi? Geordi, my voice is familiar. Listen to it. You can
feel that we share this. You know I'm not a threat.
The others, Mendez, Brevelle, they don't exist as humans any more, but
a part of you still does. You're not one of them yet, Geordi. I can
help you if you'll just trust me. I know what's going on inside of you,
the war you're fighting with yourself. Your humanity slipping away. The
instinct to run, it's overpowering, but they know how to beat it now,
Geordi. Look at me! I've come back, Geordi. Let me take you back, too.
Just take my hand. Please. 
(slowly, tentatively, then rushing into her arms) 
CRUSHER: Crusher to Enterprise. Lock on to Commander Leitjen's signal.
Prepare to beam two directly to Sickbay. 
SUSANNA: We're going home, Geordi.

