OGAWA COMPUTER CRUSHER LAFORGE HOLOSUZ

[Holodeck - Tarchannen]

LAFORGE: Computer, scan Starfleet records and
create a simulation of Brevelle. Place him where he was while recording
this. Okay, good. Computer, based on their speed and direction, can you
extrapolate each officer's movements as they walk out of the recording
device's field of view? 
COMPUTER: Affirmative, with an increasing probability of error reaching
ninety five percent after ten seconds. 
LAFORGE: Understood. Run simulation. 
HOLO-SUZ: I want to make another sweep of the perimeter. La Forge, you
start at building four. Mendez and Brevelle, you begin at two. I'll
take five. 
(the people move off and Brevelle switches off his recording/lighting
device) 
LAFORGE: Computer, freeze. It's all happening too fast. Computer,
reverse simulation. Run it back to time index fourteen seven two. 
(everyone goes backwards) 
LAFORGE: Freeze programme. Computer, remove La Forge. And now remove
Leitjen. And now remove Mendez. 
(and we clearly see the shadow of a half-crouching person against the
building) 
LAFORGE: Computer, using vector analysis, identify the source of this
shadow. 
COMPUTER: There is no object in the programme which could generate the
shadow. 
LAFORGE: There has to be something between the camera light and this
wall. Computer, given the distance between the light and the wall, can
you determine the most likely shape and position of the object causing
this shadow? 
COMPUTER: There is insufficient data to reconstruct the requested
object. 
LAFORGE: All right, let's say that my friend and I here are about the
same size, say one pint seven metres. Now, can you extrapolate its
shape and its position? 
COMPUTER: Affirmative. 
LAFORGE: Do it. 
(Then Geordi gets pains in his chest, and falls to his knees. The
transformation is starting)

[Sickbay]

(Susanna is completely unrecognisable now) 
CRUSHER: There, in the thymus. Some sort of parasite. It's using
Susanna's immune system to spread genetic instructions. 
OGAWA: How did it get there? 
CRUSHER: She could have become infected during the original mission.
It's small enough to have entered through any of the mucous membranes.
But it certainly isn't behaving like a typical parasite. It isn't
feeding off of her. It's transforming her DNA to match its own. 
OGAWA: There's not much of her original DNA left. 
CRUSHER: And we're going to need unaltered genes or we'll never get her
back. We've got to get that thing out of her now.

