LARSON TROI LAFORGE PICARD RIKER BROWER CRUSHER BARCLAY

[Sickbay]

CRUSHER: Incredible! The production of
neurotransmitters in your brain has jumped by over five hundred
percent. Pre and postsynaptic membranes have increased permeability to
match it. I couldn't even guess at your IQ level now. 
BARCLAY: Probably somewhere between twelve hundred and fourteen fifty. 
CRUSHER: But that isn't all. The corpus callosum, the connecting bridge
between both sides of the brain, it is so
active now that the hemispheres are essentially behaving as one. 
LAFORGE: So, it's not just raw intelligence we're talking about here. 
CRUSHER: No. Creativity, resourcefulness, inspiration, imagination,
they've all been enhanced. Lieutenant, you could very well be the most
advanced human being who has ever lived.

[Ready room]

RIKER: Whatever that alien probe did to him,
Barclay now seems to know more about the internal workings of the
Enterprise than anyone else on board. 
PICARD: The question is, how are we going to deal with it. 
RIKER: We could confine him to his quarters. 
LAFORGE: How can we do that? What's he done? We're talking about
locking a man up for being too smart. 
RIKER: If he's been influenced by an alien, wouldn't that put us all at
risk? 
CRUSHER: Not necessarily. It might be something as simple as an
allergic reaction to a bee sting. 
PICARD: Has Mister Barclay done anything that could be considered
potentially threatening? 
TROI: Well, he did make a pass at me last night. (Riker and La Forge
stare) A good one. 
LAFORGE: I'd hardly consider that a threat. 
TROI: No, but it's certainly unusual behaviour for Barclay. 
CRUSHER: There's something else, Captain. He taught violin technique at
the music school last night. 
RIKER: I didn't know Barclay played the violin. 
CRUSHER: He didn't, not until last night. 
LAFORGE: Look, if we want to save the array, we need Barclay. It's as
simple as that. 
PICARD: Until he does something more menacing, I see no reason why we
should prevent him from continuing his work. 
LARSON [OC]: Larson to Commander La Forge. 
LAFORGE: Go ahead, Lieutenant.

[Engineering]

LARSON: We're having trouble containing reactor
nine, sir. It's starting to chain. 
LAFORGE [OC]: I'm on my way. 
[Ready room]

RIKER: You said he made a pass at you, but you
failed to mention whether he was successful or not. 
(the answer is a grin)

[Engineering]

BARCLAY: Thermal levels up one hundred seventy
seven percent. Comparable increase in neutron emissions. 
LAFORGE: Is the interface between the computer and the array still in
operation? 
BARCLAY: Yes, but our computer is too slow to direct the repairs. The
parameters are changing too quickly for it to keep up. 
LAFORGE: Then we'll have to try a remote shutdown from here. 
LARSON: Transmitting commands to the array now, sir. Starting close
down sequence. 
BARCLAY: Brower, increase the intake of liquid helium three into the
reactor wall. We've got to cool it off. 
BROWER: Transmitting commands. Thermal levels increasing, sir. 
LAFORGE: What happened? 
BARCLAY: Unclear. The interface isn't fast enough. 
LARSON: Commander La Forge. Overload indications on Argus generator
five, seven and fourteen. 
LAFORGE: Damn! 
BARCLAY: I can't do anything from here. I have to find a better
interface. 
LAFORGE: La Forge to Bridge. We're looking at a cascade reactor failure
on the Argus.

