RIKER LAFORGE WORF PICARD BARCLAY CRUSHER DATA ANAYA

[Sickbay]

CRUSHER: There was enough energy in that flash to
overload your optic nerves. It knocked you unconscious. 
LAFORGE: My visor must have filtered it out. 
CRUSHER: Exactly. But there was no apparent retinal damage and the
cornea looks fine. But I'm still waiting for a full
sero-amino readout. I'll call you when it comes in. (to a medtech) I'd
like this done as quickly as possible, Ensign. 
BARCLAY: You shouldn't have to wait too long for the results. 
CRUSHER: What do you mean? 
BARCLAY: Couldn't you use a global mode in your scanner? It would be a
lot faster. 
CRUSHER: That's not possible. We're talking about human cells here, not
isolinear circuits. I think you'd better stick to engineering,
Lieutenant. 
BARCLAY: A cell has a an electromagnetic signature just like a circuit
element does. Theoretically, it should work with just a few
adjustments. I could set it up for you, if you'd like. 
(Red alert sounds)

[Bridge]

WORF: Probe now closing at fifteen point three
metres per second. Collision course. 
DATA: Captain, sensors are reading no particulate emissions or subspace
field distortions. 
PICARD: Then how is it able to move? 
DATA: Method of propulsion is unknown, sir. 
RIKER: Ensign, take us away from it. One quarter impulse. 
ANAYA: (the lady at helm) Aye, sir. 
WORF: The probe is matching our speed and course. 
DATA: Captain, an energy field is forming around the device. Intensity
is three point two terawatts and increasing. 
WORF: Sir, the shuttlecraft shields did not provide sufficient
protection for its computer. Our computer may also be vulnerable. I
recommend withdrawal to a safe distance. 
PICARD: Ensign Anaya, full about. Half impulse. 
ANAYA: One half impulse. 
WORF: The probe is following. 
PICARD: Options, Number One? 
RIKER: We can't use photon torpedoes. An explosion this close could
cripple us. 
WORF: Sir, recommend full phasers. 
PICARD: Proceed. 
WORF: Firing phasers. 
(the probe just glows a bit more) 
WORF: No effect, Captain. 
DATA: The probe's field intensity is continuing to build, sir. We are
in danger. 
RIKER: Riker to La Forge. Can you increase phaser power?

