RIKER ANAYA WORF PICARD LAFORGE ALIEN DATA BARCLAY

[Bridge]

DATA: Captain, we have not regained control of the
propulsion systems. The ODN bypass to the Bridge has been blocked. 
RIKER: Barclay! 
BARCLAY [OC]: Yes, Commander Riker? 
[Holodeck]

RIKER [OC]: Whatever it is you're doing out there,
you've got to stop it. 
[Bridge]

(there's a red sparkling swirly thing on the
viewscreen) 
WORF: Sir, we're going in. 
PICARD: Mister Barclay, respond at once! 
(nothing, so Picard gestures to Worf) 
WORF: Audio's disconnected. 
PICARD: Lieutenant, take a security team to holodeck three. Disconnect
Mister Barclay from the computer. 
WORF: Aye, Captain.

[Holodeck]

(Worf and two security men march in. One approaches
Barclay and is repelled by a forcefield) 
BARCLAY [OC]: I want you to know, Lieutenant Worf, that I understand
your duty in this matter. 
WORF: Phasers. Maximum setting. 
BARCLAY [OC]: And that I in no way will take your actions personally. 
WORF: Conduits. 
(no effect, then the Enterprise is stretched in to the red and swirly
thing, with internal wormhole effects)

[Bridge]

RIKER: La Forge? Initiate stabilisation procedure! 
LAFORGE [OC]: Resetting stabilisers to match subspace flow matrix.
Stand by. 
WORF: He is protected by a force field. We could not disconnect him. 
PICARD: Mister Data? 
DATA: We are experiencing a quantum-model oscillation delay, doubling
in intensity every twelve point three seconds. Bio-cellular disruption
is imminent. 
ANAYA: Sir! 
(normality is resumed) 
RIKER: Where are we, Ensign? 
ANAYA: Unless something's wrong with our sensors, sir, we're almost
thirty thousand light years from where we were. 
PICARD: The centre of the galaxy. 
ANAYA: Sir, our heading's been altered. Approaching planetary cluster. 
DATA: Captain, all systems are back under helm control. The computer
has returned to normal functioning. 
(a giant white-haired and bearded male humanoid head appears in front
of the viewscreen) 
WORF: Captain! 
ALIEN: Emotive. Electro-chemical stimulus response. Cranial plate,
bipedal locomotion, endoskeletal. Contiguous external integument. 
PICARD: I'm Captain Jean-Luc Picard of the Federation Starship
Enterprise. 
ALIEN: Hierarchical collective command structure. 
PICARD: Who are you? 
ALIEN: Interrogative. 
PICARD: I am interrogative, yes, and I would appreciate an explanation.

BARCLAY: I think I can help you with that, Captain. 
RIKER: Mister Barclay. I thought it would be fatal if you left the
holodeck. 
BARCLAY: The Cytherians have reintegrated me, sir. 
ALIEN: Cytherians. 
BARCLAY: The probe was designed to instruct outsiders on how to reach
this system. The technologies aren't always compatible. They failed
with the Argus computer, and with the computer on board the shuttle,
but they were able to reprogram me. 
PICARD: What do you want of us? 
ALIEN: The same as you. 
PICARD: Mister Barclay? 
BARCLAY: You're both on the same mission, Captain. 
PICARD: Mission? 
BARCLAY: Yes, sir. The Cytherians are exploring the galaxy just as we
are. The only difference is that they never leave their home. They
bring others here. Their only wish, an exchange of knowledge. They want
to know us. 
Captain's log, stardate 44721.9. After ten days in
the company of the Cytherians, the Enterprise has been safely returned
to Federation space. We bring back knowledge of their race that will
take our scholars decades to examine. Lieutenant Barclay is apparently
no worse for his experience.

