TROI LAFORGE PICARD RIKER CRUSHER DATA BARCLAY

[Engineering]

BARCLAY: You're welcome, Captain. Barclay out. I'm
sorry if I overstepped my authority. 
LAFORGE: (to himself) Don't mention it.

Captain's log, stardate 44705.3. The Enterprise has
destroyed the alien probe, but now we are left with the difficult task
of repairing the Argus Telescope. Failure to do so would represent an
incalculable scientific loss.

[Corridor]

RIKER: Mister Barclay. Everyone's still trying to
figure out exactly how you did it. 
BARCLAY: Well, it just occurred to me that I could set up a frequency
harmonic between the deflector and the shield grid using the warp field
generator as a power flow anti-attenuator, and that of course naturally
created an amplification of the inherent energy output. 
RIKER: Uh huh. I see that.

[Observation lounge]

PICARD: I'm glad you could join us, Mister Barclay.
Your report, Mister La Forge. 
LAFORGE: Each of the telescope's subspace antenna clusters is powered
by its own fusion reactor, but a single computer controls them all. 
RIKER: So all eighteen reactors were affected when the computer was
damaged? 
LAFORGE: That's right. They're starting to overload, and could
eventually go critical. The explosion would destroy the Array, and I
wouldn't want to be next door when that happens. 
DATA: A standard isolation procedure would be advisable. 
LAFORGE: I agree. We'll cut off each reactor from the damaged control
system and repair them one by one. 
RIKER: How long will that take? 
LAFORGE: Two to three weeks at least. 
PICARD: All right, Mister La Forge. 
BARCLAY: I don't agree. We could repair all of the reactors
simultaneously instead of one by one. 
PICARD: Simultaneously? All eighteen? 
BARCLAY: Yes, sir. 
LAFORGE: But the Argus computer is inoperable. 
BARCLAY: Not entirely. The core memory is still intact, and we could
programme a completely new control system. 
DATA: An interesting suggestion, Lieutenant. However, that approach
would require much more time than our original plan. At least seven
weeks. 
BARCLAY: I could have it ready for you in two days. 
RIKER: What? 
BARCLAY: If you could assist me in the morning, Commander. 
LAFORGE: Sure, Reg.

[Ship's theatre]

(an acting workshop, and Barclay is in award
winning mode) 
BARCLAY: The moon, yes, that'll be my home, my paradise. I shall find
there all the souls I love. Socrates, Galileo. And when I arrive they
will question my worthiness. What the devil is he doing there among us?
Philosopher, scientist, poet, musician, duellist! Here lies Hercule
Savinien De Cyrano de Bergerac. I would not have you weep any less for
that charming, good, and handsome Christien. I only ask this, that as
the great cold surrounds my bones, you allow a double meaning for your
mourning veil. And when you let fall your tears fall for him, some few
will be for me. 
CRUSHER: That was a real improvement. 
BARCLAY: Same time, day after tomorrow? 
CRUSHER: Same time.

[Ten Forward]

TROI: Reg? May I join you? 
BARCLAY: Of course, please. Sit down, Counsellor. 
TROI: Hard at work? 
BARCLAY: I'm getting prepared for tomorrow's meeting in Engineering.
We're planning our repair strategy. 
TROI: I really enjoyed the scene you just performed. 
BARCLAY: You're a very forgiving audience. 
TROI: Not at all. I thought you were brilliant. You've changed. 
BARCLAY: Is that a professional opinion? 
TROI: Pure observation. 
BARCLAY: No, it's true. I can't explain it. In the last few days I've
found confidence I never knew was there. 
TROI: I'm proud of you, Reg. I'm glad for you, too. Well, I'd better be
going. 
BARCLAY: Must you? 
TROI: I think so. 
BARCLAY: Wouldn't you like to take a walk with me through the
arboretum? The zalnias should be in bloom. 
TROI: Reg, as your former counsellor, I don't think it would be
appropriate. 
BARCLAY: I don't need a counsellor. What I need is the company of a
charming, intelligent woman. 
TROI: Goodnight, Mister Barclay.

