VASH LAFORGE PICARD Q NURSE CRUSHER DATA SIRGUY

[Forest glade]

(Data is teaching Deanna about longbows, Geordi is
practising his mandolin) 
CRUSHER: I've managed to stop the bleeding. 
(a horse is heard approaching, then pops in out of thin air) 
PICARD: Q. It's about time you showed up. 
Q: I would prefer if you addressed me as His Honour the High Sheriff of
Nottingham. 
PICARD: We will no longer share in this pointless fantasy of yours. 
Q: Fine. stay here and do nothing. By midday tomorrow, your crew will
be safely aboard their ship. Of course, you will have to accept the
consequences of your inaction. 
PICARD: Consequences? 
Q: What is the one thing that Robin Hood is most famous for? 
LAFORGE: He robs from the rich and gives to the poor. 
Q: Besides that. 
DATA: Perhaps you are referring to the rescue of Maid Marian from
Nottingham Castle? 
Q: Yes, Data. And it just so happens that Sir Guy of Gisbourne has
decreed that Marian's head shall come off tomorrow at noon. 
PICARD: Vash. 
Q: It's your choice, Robin. You can either take your ease in this
sylvan glade or risk your life to save the woman you care nothing
about. 
PICARD: My feelings toward Vash are irrelevant. I would attempt to save
any innocent life, as you well know. 
Q: Yes, but what about your merry men? Are you willing to jeopardise
their lives as well? Is Vash's life worth more than Data's or Troi's or
Worf's? You know, Worf, you'd make a perfect throw rug in Nottingham
Castle. 
PICARD: Q, I ask you to put and end to this before someone gets hurt. 
Q: Oh, that's impossible. You see, I've given this fantasy as you call
it, a life of its own. I have no more idea what's going to happen than
you do. But of one thing I am absolutely sure. If you dare come to
Nottingham Castle, blood will be spilt.

[Marian's chambers]

NURSE: Oh, you'll wear yourself out with all that
pacing, Milady. 
VASH: I told you to stop calling me that. The name's Vash. 
NURSE: My poor lamb. You've got a brain sickness for sure. Can't I get
you something to ease your suffering? 
VASH: I could use a drink. 
NURSE: Well, I wasn't thinking of spirits, Milady, but I have some nice
fresh leeches. To drain the fever. 
VASH: Out. Get out. 
NURSE: Oh, her mind's in an awful turmoil, Sir Guy. 
VASH: Who the hell are you? 
NURSE: Milady, everyone in Nottingham knows, Sir Guy of Gisbourne. 
VASH: Sir Guy of what? 
SIR GUY: Leave us. 
(the nurse leaves) 
SIR GUY: Do not mock me, Lady Marian. I'm prepared to offer you one
last chance to change your mind. Will you marry me? 
(Vash slaps his face) 
SIR GUY: I see. Then the execution will proceed as scheduled. 
VASH: What execution? 
SIR GUY: I warn you, Marian, this pathetic attempt at feigning madness
will not save your life. 
VASH: You mean I'm the one being executed? Sir Guy, wait a minute.
Couldn't we talk this over? I admit, I haven't been myself lately.
Maybe we've both been a bit hasty? Please?

