Q PICARD

[Picard's quarters]

(Picard has just got into bed when Q appears) 
Q: Sleeping alone? 
PICARD: I'm in no mood for your foolishness, Q. 
Q: I knew there was something different about you. You seem tense,
preoccupied, somewhat smaller. At first I thought it was that horrible
lecture of yours, but I was mistaken. 
PICARD: Whatever game you want to play will have to wait until
tomorrow. 
Q: I had such high hopes for you, Picard. I thought you were a bit more
evolved than the rest of your species. But now I realise you're just as
weak as all the others. Still, it pains me to see the great Jean-Luc
Picard brought down by a woman. 
PICARD: What woman? 
Q: Don't play coy with me, Captain. I witnessed your little spat with
Vash. Nor will I soon forget the look of anguish on your face. The
pain, the misery. If I didn't know better, I would have thought you
were already married. 
PICARD: You must be very bored, Q. Your imagination is running away
with you. 
Q: This human emotion, love, is a dangerous thing, Picard, and
obviously you are ill-equipped to handle it. She's found a
vulnerability in you. A vulnerability I've been looking for for years.
If I had known sooner, I would have appeared as a female. Mark my
words, Picard, this is your Achilles heel. 
PICARD: Believe what you wish. 
Q: Do you deny that you care for this woman? Believe me, I'd be doing
you a big favour if I turned her into a Klabnian eel. 
PICARD: Stay away from her, Q. 
Q: I was just trying to help. My debt to you 
PICARD: Is hereby nullified. I don't want your help, your advice, your
favours or for that matter, you. Do you understand? Once and for all! 
Q: You would have me stand idly by as she lead you to your destruction?

PICARD: Yes! 
Q: As you wish.

[Meeting room]

(looking remarkably like the ship's theatre. Picard
enters in dress uniform. Senior staff are at the back, normally
dressed) 
PICARD: Ladies and gentlemen, members of the Archaeology Council.
Welcome. Mystery. It is the mystery of Tagus Three that brings us
together today. It is a mystery that has invited more argument, more
deduction, more speculation than the best works of fiction. And if
you'll excuse the conceit, I want to tell you about my detective story.
For several years now, I have been trying to unravel the secrets of
Tagus Three. 
(a green hat appears on Crusher's head. Troi draws her attention to it)

PICARD: Needless to say, I've not succeeded. 
(Troi gets a red hat) 
PICARD: However, I have, I believe, turned up some new information,
that, if nothing else, raises a whole new set of mysteries and I hope
that we can discuss them here together. 
(Riker acquires a quarterstaff) 
PICARD: There have been nine hundred and forty seven known
archaeological excavations conducted on the planet's surface. Of those,
some seventy four are generally believed to have revealed findings of
major importance. 
(Data gets a monk's habit and leg of meat) 
PICARD: The earliest was some twenty two thousand years ago. 
(He notices what has been happening to his staff, then he is redressed
in Errol Flynn era clothing with a long bow) 
PICARD: What the hell?

