Q PICARD RIKER

[Bridge]

RIKER: How was the reception? 
PICARD: Splendid.

[Ready room] 
Q: Jean-Luc, it's wonderful to see you again. How
about a big hug? Well don't just stand there, say something. 
PICARD: Get out of my chair. 
Q: Oh, and I was hoping for something more along the lines of, welcome
back, Q, it's a pleasure to see you again my old friend." 
PICARD: We're not friends. 
Q: You wound me, mon capitaine. 
(a snap of fingers swaps their places) 
Q: There, perhaps now your manners will show some improvement. 
PICARD: What brings you here, Q? Have you been banished by the
Continuum once again? 
Q: Oh, hardly. They're still apologising to me for the last time. 
PICARD: Then what is it you want? 
Q: Do I always have to have a reason to stop by? I was merely in the
sector, I. You force a confession from me. The truth is, I have a debt
to repay. 
PICARD: A debt? 
Q: To you. And it gnaws at me, and it interferes with each of my days. 
PICARD: I have no idea what you're talking about. 
Q: Without your assistance at our last encounter, I never would have
survived. I would have taken my own life but for you. 
PICARD: We all make mistakes. 
Q: Your good deed made possible my reinstatement in the Continuum, and
I resent owing you anything. So, I'm here to pay up. Tell me, what is
it you wish and I'll be gone. 
PICARD: Just be gone. That'll do nicely. 
Q: No, no, no, no, no. It has to be something more, more constructive.
That's my new word for the day. 
PICARD: Some other time, Q. Right now I have other matters to attend
to. 
Q: Yes, your speech. I read it. It's dull, plodding, pedantic, much
like yourself. I could help you with it. 
PICARD: No thank you. 
Q: You've never actually been to the ruins at Tagus Three, have you? 
PICARD: No. They were sealed off more than a century ago. 
Q: Well, that explains it, then. How can you write about something that
you've never seen. I know, why don't I take you there? 
(Q is now wearing a safari suit, complete with pith helmet and shorts) 
PICARD: Out of the question. That would mean breaking Taguan law. 
Q: Must you always be so ethical? I suppose we could travel back in
time. You could see what Tagus was like two billion years ago. They
really knew how to party back in those days. 
PICARD: My answer is still no. My lecture will have to stand on its
own. Now, will you please leave my ship. 
Q: You are simply the most impossible person to buy a gift for. 
(Q disappears) 
PICARD: Commander Riker, will you report to my Ready room? 
(Riker enters) 
RIKER: Yes, Captain? 
PICARD: I've just been paid a visit from Q. 
RIKER: Q? Any idea what he's up to? 
PICARD: He wants to do something nice for me. 
RIKER: I'll alert the crew.

