Q PICARD VASH

[Vash's quarters]

VASH: Yes? 
PICARD: May I come in? 
(Picard enters) 
PICARD: Let me try to explain. I am by no means embarrassed by your
presence here. On the contrary. 
(then he spots a PADD on a table) 
PICARD: What's this? A map of the ruins? I thought that I was the only
reason you came to Tagus. 
VASH: I never fooled you for a second. Still, you are the most
important reason. 
PICARD: Am I? 
VASH: That's the trouble with being such a well-known liar. Even when
I'm telling the truth, no one believes me. 
(Picard goes into the next room and comes out with a shovel and
something else) 
PICARD: This equipment will have to be confiscated. 
VASH: Is that necessary? 
PICARD: If the Taguans were to catch you down there. 
VASH: Oh, come on. You gave me the same warning about Sarathong Five. 
PICARD: I remember. 
VASH: Well, it didn't stop me from going there. I brought back some
very impressive artefacts, too. 
PICARD: Which no doubt you sold for a very impressive profit. 
VASH: That's what I do! 
PICARD: Not on board my ship. I will not allow it. 
VASH: Let's get one thing straight, though, Picard. I cannot change who
I am for you or anyone else. 
PICARD: Nor can I change who I am. 
VASH: Then we have nothing more to say to one another. 
PICARD: So it would seem. 
(Picard leaves, and Q pokes his head through the hull)

[Picard's quarters]

(Picard has just got into bed when Q appears) 
Q: Sleeping alone? 
PICARD: I'm in no mood for your foolishness, Q. 
Q: I knew there was something different about you. You seem tense,
preoccupied, somewhat smaller. At first I thought it was that horrible
lecture of yours, but I was mistaken. 
PICARD: Whatever game you want to play will have to wait until
tomorrow. 
Q: I had such high hopes for you, Picard. I thought you were a bit more
evolved than the rest of your species. But now I realise you're just as
weak as all the others. Still, it pains me to see the great Jean-Luc
Picard brought down by a woman. 
PICARD: What woman? 
Q: Don't play coy with me, Captain. I witnessed your little spat with
Vash. Nor will I soon forget the look of anguish on your face. The
pain, the misery. If I didn't know better, I would have thought you
were already married. 
PICARD: You must be very bored, Q. Your imagination is running away
with you. 
Q: This human emotion, love, is a dangerous thing, Picard, and
obviously you are ill-equipped to handle it. She's found a
vulnerability in you. A vulnerability I've been looking for for years.
If I had known sooner, I would have appeared as a female. Mark my
words, Picard, this is your Achilles heel. 
PICARD: Believe what you wish. 
Q: Do you deny that you care for this woman? Believe me, I'd be doing
you a big favour if I turned her into a Klabnian eel. 
PICARD: Stay away from her, Q. 
Q: I was just trying to help. My debt to you 
PICARD: Is hereby nullified. I don't want your help, your advice, your
favours or for that matter, you. Do you understand? Once and for all! 
Q: You would have me stand idly by as she lead you to your destruction?

PICARD: Yes! 
Q: As you wish.

