SIR GUY VASH LAFORGE PICARD RIKER Q RABBLE NURSE
raised crockery sentence things swordsman won hedge data surprised

[Marian's chamber] 
NURSE: You sent for me, Milady? 
VASH: I want you to take this letter to Robin's men. 
NURSE: You want me to go to Sherwood Forest at this time of night? 
VASH: You'll leave immediately. 
NURSE: But it's dark. I'll get lost. Besides, it's not safe. What with
all them hedge robbers and worse lurking about. 
VASH: Please, this is urgent. 
NURSE: If you ask me, you'd be better off with Sir Guy. He's got a
future. Why, you'll be living in London afore you know it. 
VASH: But you must go, otherwise they'll kill him. 
(the Sheriff enters) 
Q: Out. 
(the nurse leaves) 
VASH: How dare you barge in here like this 
Q: I've come to apologise for my harsh words. I had no idea that you
were so ruthless. 
VASH: That's most gracious of you. 
Q: I admit I was surprised, but no more surprised than Jean-Luc. 
VASH: You're Q. 
Q: Yes. And you are a very interesting woman. What is this? 
VASH: Give me that. 
Q: A letter to Riker. Quick, Come to Castle. Save the Captain. Why,
this is wonderful. What marvellous duplicity. You
certainly fooled Sir Guy, and me as well. I think you're worth further
study. 
VASH: Am I? 
Q: Yes, but unfortunately we just don't have the time. Guards! Take
this traitor away. It appears there's going to be a double execution.

[Castle courtyard]

(Four cowled monks walk in front of the camera. The
headsman is ready at his block. The prisoners are escorted in.) 
VASH: This whole thing is your fault. 
PICARD: My fault? 
VASH: Yes, your fault. 
PICARD: If you hadn't grabbed my sword we'd be back in Sherwood by now.

VASH: I grabbed your sword to prevent you from being killed. 
PICARD: Oh, really? Not as a wedding present for Sir Guy? 
VASH: You know I had no intention of going through with that. 
PICARD: Do I? You should never have interfered. 
VASH: You're the one interfering. 
PICARD: I was just trying to rescue you. 
VASH: Well next time don't bother. 
PICARD: Don't you worry. I won't. 
Q: Don't the two of you ever stop arguing? Now, tell me, Robin, as you
stand here facing the termination of your insect existence, do you see
what brought you to this end? Was she worth it? 
PICARD: Can we just get this over with. 
VASH: Are you implying that I'm not worth it? 
PICARD: Q, your game was for my benefit. She is innocent in all of
this. 
Q: She is many things, none of them innocent. 
PICARD: Let her go. 
VASH: Jean-Luc, you do care. 
Q: A gallant gesture, Robin, but a futile one. Farewell. I hope the two
of you are happy together. 
(the outlaws are in position) 
SIR GUY: You have been found guilty of outlawry and high treason. Do
you have anything to say before sentence is carried out? 
VASH: I. (shakes head) 
SIR GUY: Prepare them for the block. 
RABBLE: Off with their heads. 
LAFORGE: There are too many of them. 
RIKER: Data, we need a diversion, now. 
(Data takes something from his forearm and throws it into a fire as
Picard's head goes down onto the block. The axe is raised, there's a
boom, and the fight starts) 
SIR GUY: Guards! Take Marian to the tower. 
(Vash disposes of one guard, but the other takes her inside) 
SIR GUY: I'll have you know I'm the greatest swordsman in all of
Nottingham. 
(Guy and Picard duel. Worf and Geordi kill guards while Beverly and
Deanna smash crockery over heads) 
PICARD: Very impressive. There's something you should know. 
SIR GUY: And what would that be? 
PICARD: I'm not from Nottingham. 
(and he runs Guy through on the stairs)

