SIR GUY TROI WORF PICARD RIKER Q VASH DATA
troi worf oh charges smashes course biofunctions touch alright

[Forest glade]

(Geordi is still plucking at the instrument when
Worf walks over, takes it off him and smashes it against a tree trunk) 
WORF: Sorry. 
(Troi is still learning to use a bow and arrow, She aims at a tree and
hits Data instead) 
TROI: Data, are you alright? 
DATA: The arrow impacted just above my sixth intercostal support,
penetrating my secondary subprocessor. Fortunately, none of my
biofunctions seem affected. Do not be concerned, Counsellor. I believe
your aim is improving. 
RIKER: We've got to get out of here, Captain. 
PICARD: Not we, Number One. I want you and the others to stay here
until I return. 
RIKER: You're not going to try to save her yourself, sir? 
PICARD: This is not a mission. It's personal. It's between Q and
myself. I don't want the rest of you involved. 
RIKER: Captain! 
PICARD: You have your orders, Commander. And I expect you to follow
them.

[Castle courtyard]

(The headsman is having his axe sharpened on the
grindstone) 
Q: A touch sharper, shall we? 
(Guy leads Vash out. She carries a bouquet of flowers) 
Q: Such benevolence, Sir Guy. Allowing the condemned prisoner fresh
air? 
SIR GUY: You're mistaken, Sheriff. Maid Marian has promised to be my
wife. 
Q: What? But that's impossible? 
VASH: Not at all. Though I admit a maiden seldom has the opportunity to
win herself such a noble husband. 
SIR GUY: A toast. To the most beautiful bride-to-be in the whole of
England. 
Q: Don't drink that! It could be poison. 
SIR GUY: Have you taken leave of your senses? 
Q: A foul scheme of Robin Hood's. She's in league with him still, I'll
warrant. 
VASH: Robin Hood? Oh, Robin Hood. Oh, well, that was over long ago. 
Q: All of Nottingham knows you're still in love with him. 
VASH: That's a lie. He bewitched me. He put me under some evil spell. 
SIR GUY: I suspected as much. You can add sorcery to the list of
charges against that rogue. 
Q: Sir Guy, if anyone's been bewitched here, it's you. 
SIR GUY: Silence. Any more impudence and it'll be your head on the
block. Guard, escort the Lady Marian to her chamber. 
(the transcriber coughs and splutters at the idea of Sir
Guy giving orders to the King's Sheriff!!!!) 
VASH: But I'd much rather stay with you. 
SIR GUY: Of course you would, my child. But I have important business
to attend to. 
(Vash leaves) 
SIR GUY: Lovely creature. 
Q: Intriguing. 
(all of which has been overheard by Robin/Jean-Luc in disguise) 
