SIR GUY TROI WORF PICARD RIKER CRUSHER DATA
mystery right century monk ship bows new identifies remarkably

[Meeting room]

(looking remarkably like the ship's theatre. Picard
enters in dress uniform. Senior staff are at the back, normally
dressed) 
PICARD: Ladies and gentlemen, members of the Archaeology Council.
Welcome. Mystery. It is the mystery of Tagus Three that brings us
together today. It is a mystery that has invited more argument, more
deduction, more speculation than the best works of fiction. And if
you'll excuse the conceit, I want to tell you about my detective story.
For several years now, I have been trying to unravel the secrets of
Tagus Three. 
(a green hat appears on Crusher's head. Troi draws her attention to it)

PICARD: Needless to say, I've not succeeded. 
(Troi gets a red hat) 
PICARD: However, I have, I believe, turned up some new information,
that, if nothing else, raises a whole new set of mysteries and I hope
that we can discuss them here together. 
(Riker acquires a quarterstaff) 
PICARD: There have been nine hundred and forty seven known
archaeological excavations conducted on the planet's surface. Of those,
some seventy four are generally believed to have revealed findings of
major importance. 
(Data gets a monk's habit and leg of meat) 
PICARD: The earliest was some twenty two thousand years ago. 
(He notices what has been happening to his staff, then he is redressed
in Errol Flynn era clothing with a long bow) 
PICARD: What the hell?

[Sherwood Forest]

(a heavily Hollywood-isd version of the old
ballads, with Picard as Robin, and the senior staff as the outlaws.
This is
my local tradition and I personally  hate the US
messing with it....) 
PICARD: Q! 
TROI: Is this Tagus Three? 
PICARD: I doubt there are many oak trees on Tagus. No, I think this is
supposed to be Earth, somewhere round about the twelfth century. And
this is England, or to be more precise, Sherwood Forest. Or at least
Q's recreation of it. 
RIKER: That would explain these costumes. 
PICARD: Quite right, Number One. Or should I say, John Little. 
CRUSHER: Well, if he's Little John, that makes you 
PICARD: I know. Robin Hood. 
WORF: Sir, I protest. I am not a merry man. 
DATA: On the contrary, Lieutenant Worf. Your clothing identifies you
with the character of Will Scarlett, just as Geordi's mandolin
identifies him as Alan A-Dale 
RIKER: And you, Mister Data, bear a striking resemblance to Friar Tuck.

(Enter a nobleman on a horse) 
SIR GUY: I have you at last, Robin Hood. 
(he draws his sword, and Worf draws his own then starts to fight him.
Worf gets a gash on the shoulder, then the Norman soldiers fire their
bows) 
PICARD: Quick, into the forest. Mister Worf. That's an order. 
SIR GUY: Enough, you fools. We'll never find them in the greenwood.

