WORF TARSES PICARD SABIN SATIE CRUSHER LAFORGE

[Satie's quarters]

(the Admiral is serving tea, I think) 
SATIE: I've seen this before. The spectre of conspiracy on a starship
is a frightening one. 
PICARD: I can scarcely believe it myself, but I am so grateful for your
presence, Admiral. If anyone in Starfleet can help us, it's you. 
SATIE: Captain, I find myself changing my mind about you. 
PICARD: In what way? 
SATIE: When Starfleet ordered me here, it was with the express command
that we work together on this problem as equals. My father taught me to
avoid partnerships. Most of them are woefully lop-sided. 
PICARD: That sounds like Judge Aaron Satie. 
SATIE: You knew my father? 
PICARD: Only from his writings. His judgments were required reading at
the Academy. 
SATIE: He was an extraordinary man. Every night at the dinner table he
would pose a question for debate. My big brothers and I would wrangle
it around, from one side and the other. Father would referee, and he
kept a stopwatch on us so we'd have to learn brevity. But he wouldn't
let us leave until he thought we'd completely explored the issue. 
PICARD: I'm willing to wager that you trounced your brothers during
those debates. 
SATIE: More than once. Father loved it when I nailed one of them with
some subtle point of logic. All that I am, I owe to him. He was a
giant. 
PICARD: You must miss him very much. 
SATIE: Captain, I always preferred working alone. That way, if
something goes wrong, I don't have to go far for the cause. I resented
you being assigned to me, but I was wrong. We're going to be quite a
team.

[Observation lounge]

WORF: J'Dan did not make friends easily. There are
not many to question. 
SABIN: You've done a thorough job, Lieutenant. 
WORF: I am strongly motivated in this matter. 
SABIN: Yes, I can see that. I don't mind telling you I'm surprised.
Frankly, when I first heard about your father. 
WORF: My father? 
SABIN: Yes. There are some who believe he betrayed your people to the
Romulans. 
WORF: What he did or did not do is no one's concern but my own 
SABIN: Of course. I only meant before I saw you in action, I naturally
considered you a possible security risk. But I want you to know you
have the Admiral's and my complete confidence. You have nothing to
prove to us. 
WORF: If there is a conspiracy on board, I promise you I will find it. 
SABIN: Good. You know the ship, you know the personnel, you know
exactly what we're up against. We're counting on you, Lieutenant. 
WORF: I will arrange for the interviews to begin.

[Interrogation room]

SATIE: And how often did Lieutenant J'Dan come in
for his injections? 
CRUSHER: About once a week. 
SATIE: Did you administer them yourself? 
CRUSHER: No. 
SATIE: Then who did? 
CRUSHER: I had one of my assistants do that. 
SABIN: Did you ever hear him say anything? Anything that may have
seemed innocent at the time that might now shed some light on this
investigation? 
CRUSHER: No, nothing. In fact, he rarely spoke at all. 
PICARD: Thank you, Doctor Crusher, we appreciate your time. You are
excused now. Mister Worf, will you bring in the next person? 
(Crusher leaves and a young man enters) 
PICARD: Please sit down, Mister Tarses. For the record, will you tell
us your name and position? 
TARSES: Simon Tarses, Crewman First Class, medical technician. 
PICARD: I assure you this is an informal inquiry. We are not accusing
you of anything. However, if you would like counsel, it can be provided
for you. 
TARSES: No, sir. I have nothing to hide. 
PICARD: Tell me, how long have you held your appointment onboard this
vessel? 
TARSES: Since Stardate 43587. 
SATIE: Mister Tarses, your records state that you were born on Mars
Colony. 
TARSES: That's right. 
SATIE: Then you are human? 
TARSES: Largely. My paternal grandfather was Vulcan. 
SATIE: Yes, I see that. Tell me, what is your relationship with the
Klingon, J'Dan? 
TARSES: Er, he, I mean, there's no relationship. He just came in for
his injections. 
SATIE: Did you give him those injections? 
TARSES: Sometimes. There were several of us. Actually, I might have
done it twice. 
SABIN: Did he ever make any comments that might, in retrospect, be
suspicious? 
TARSES: Not really. He hardly ever talked. 
SATIE: Did you ever see him outside Sickbay? 
TARSES: Once or twice in Ten Forward, with a group of people, but I
never had a conversation with him. 
SATIE: Thank you, Mister Tarses. I don't think there's need for more.
Captain? 
PICARD: You're excused, crewman. 
(Tarses leaves) 
PICARD: Mister Worf? 
SABIN: Wait. He's lying. He's desperately frightened. He's covering
something. 
PICARD: It's clear that he's frightened, but that's hardly an
indication 
SABIN: It's more than that. He wasn't truthful. He's covering a lie.
One so big it's overwhelming him. I think we've found the man.

[Ready room]

PICARD: Admiral. I have to tell you, you must not
expect me to permit any action against Mister Tarses solely on the
basis of Betazoid intuition. 
SATIE: Sabin has uncanny instincts. I've learned to trust them. 
PICARD: I'm not happy about this use of a Betazoid. 
SATIE: But you have a Betazoid counsellor. Surely you're aware of the
advantages. 
PICARD: There is a difference between a counsellor and an investigator.

SATIE: Are you saying you never use your counsellor during
interrogations? 
PICARD: Yes, I do, but I would not act solely on the basis of her
instinct. 
SATIE: Nor do I. 
PICARD: But you're asking, you're asking me to restrict Mister Tarses'
movements solely on the basis on Sabin's feeling. 
SATIE: If Counsellor Troi suggested to you that someone on the ship
were dangerous, would you not act on that? Observe him? Curb his
activity? 
PICARD: Yes, I admit I probably would. And perhaps I should re-evaluate
that behaviour. 
SATIE: Oh, nonsense. Let's keep our priorities straight. The important
thing is to uncover the conspiracy on this ship and
to prevent further damage. Now, if Tarses is a possible saboteur, you
cannot allow him access to sensitive areas of the ship, and I strongly
suggest continuous surveillance. 
PICARD: If we had clear evidence. 
SATIE: We will have clear evidence. Sabin and Lieutenant Worf are
continuing to investigate. But if you don't act until then, it may be
too late. 
PICARD: No. I won't treat a man as a criminal unless there is cause to
do so. 
SATIE: And while you're being so generous, you give a saboteur a chance
to strike again. Last time it was just a hatch
cover/ What if next time it's more serious? What if lives are lost? Can
you afford not to act? 
LAFORGE [OC]: Engineering to Captain Picard. 
PICARD: Yes, Mister La Forge. 
LAFORGE [OC]: Captain, could you come to Engineering right away? We've
got something interesting to show you. 
PICARD: I'll be right there.

