LAFORGE WORF PICARD TARSES SABIN SATIE CRUSHER DATA

[Interrogation room]

SATIE: And how often did Lieutenant J'Dan come in
for his injections? 
CRUSHER: About once a week. 
SATIE: Did you administer them yourself? 
CRUSHER: No. 
SATIE: Then who did? 
CRUSHER: I had one of my assistants do that. 
SABIN: Did you ever hear him say anything? Anything that may have
seemed innocent at the time that might now shed some light on this
investigation? 
CRUSHER: No, nothing. In fact, he rarely spoke at all. 
PICARD: Thank you, Doctor Crusher, we appreciate your time. You are
excused now. Mister Worf, will you bring in the next person? 
(Crusher leaves and a young man enters) 
PICARD: Please sit down, Mister Tarses. For the record, will you tell
us your name and position? 
TARSES: Simon Tarses, Crewman First Class, medical technician. 
PICARD: I assure you this is an informal inquiry. We are not accusing
you of anything. However, if you would like counsel, it can be provided
for you. 
TARSES: No, sir. I have nothing to hide. 
PICARD: Tell me, how long have you held your appointment onboard this
vessel? 
TARSES: Since Stardate 43587. 
SATIE: Mister Tarses, your records state that you were born on Mars
Colony. 
TARSES: That's right. 
SATIE: Then you are human? 
TARSES: Largely. My paternal grandfather was Vulcan. 
SATIE: Yes, I see that. Tell me, what is your relationship with the
Klingon, J'Dan? 
TARSES: Er, he, I mean, there's no relationship. He just came in for
his injections. 
SATIE: Did you give him those injections? 
TARSES: Sometimes. There were several of us. Actually, I might have
done it twice. 
SABIN: Did he ever make any comments that might, in retrospect, be
suspicious? 
TARSES: Not really. He hardly ever talked. 
SATIE: Did you ever see him outside Sickbay? 
TARSES: Once or twice in Ten Forward, with a group of people, but I
never had a conversation with him. 
SATIE: Thank you, Mister Tarses. I don't think there's need for more.
Captain? 
PICARD: You're excused, crewman. 
(Tarses leaves) 
PICARD: Mister Worf? 
SABIN: Wait. He's lying. He's desperately frightened. He's covering
something. 
PICARD: It's clear that he's frightened, but that's hardly an
indication 
SABIN: It's more than that. He wasn't truthful. He's covering a lie.
One so big it's overwhelming him. I think we've found the man.

[Ready room]

PICARD: Admiral. I have to tell you, you must not
expect me to permit any action against Mister Tarses solely on the
basis of Betazoid intuition. 
SATIE: Sabin has uncanny instincts. I've learned to trust them. 
PICARD: I'm not happy about this use of a Betazoid. 
SATIE: But you have a Betazoid counsellor. Surely you're aware of the
advantages. 
PICARD: There is a difference between a counsellor and an investigator.

SATIE: Are you saying you never use your counsellor during
interrogations? 
PICARD: Yes, I do, but I would not act solely on the basis of her
instinct. 
SATIE: Nor do I. 
PICARD: But you're asking, you're asking me to restrict Mister Tarses'
movements solely on the basis on Sabin's feeling. 
SATIE: If Counsellor Troi suggested to you that someone on the ship
were dangerous, would you not act on that? Observe him? Curb his
activity? 
PICARD: Yes, I admit I probably would. And perhaps I should re-evaluate
that behaviour. 
SATIE: Oh, nonsense. Let's keep our priorities straight. The important
thing is to uncover the conspiracy on this ship and
to prevent further damage. Now, if Tarses is a possible saboteur, you
cannot allow him access to sensitive areas of the ship, and I strongly
suggest continuous surveillance. 
PICARD: If we had clear evidence. 
SATIE: We will have clear evidence. Sabin and Lieutenant Worf are
continuing to investigate. But if you don't act until then, it may be
too late. 
PICARD: No. I won't treat a man as a criminal unless there is cause to
do so. 
SATIE: And while you're being so generous, you give a saboteur a chance
to strike again. Last time it was just a hatch
cover/ What if next time it's more serious? What if lives are lost? Can
you afford not to act? 
LAFORGE [OC]: Engineering to Captain Picard. 
PICARD: Yes, Mister La Forge. 
LAFORGE [OC]: Captain, could you come to Engineering right away? We've
got something interesting to show you. 
PICARD: I'll be right there.

[Engineering]

LAFORGE: Captain, we finally got in here about six
hours ago. We've been going over it inch by inch ever since. 
DATA: We have made micro-tomographic analyses of the dilithium chamber,
the hatch mounting, the blast pattern from the explosion. 
LAFORGE: We did mass spectrometer readings of the residue for chemical
content, sifted
through the debris for bomb fragments. 
SATIE: What did you find? 
LAFORGE: This is the frame for the hatch. It ruptured right along here.
When we take a reading of that spot. See? 
SATIE: I'm afraid I'm out of my element, Commander. You'll have to
interpret for me. 
PICARD: There are submicron fractures in the metal casing. 
LAFORGE: That's right. A breakdown of the atomic cohesive structure. 
SATIE: Yes? And what caused them? 
DATA: Those fractures suggest nothing more than simple neutron fatigue.
I would speculate that when the engine was last inspected at McKinley
station, the hatch casing was replaced with one which had an
undetectable defect. I believe, sir, that the conclusion to our
investigation must be that the explosion was not intentional. 
LAFORGE: That's the way I see it. This wasn't sabotage at all. It was
nothing more than an accident.

[Observation lounge]

SABIN: An accident? I find that hard to believe. 
PICARD: If my crew say there was no sabotage, then you can be sure
there was none. 
SATIE: Let us keep our perspective, gentlemen. Just because there was
no sabotage doesn't mean there isn't a conspiracy on this ship. We do
have a confessed spy. 
SABIN: And he had confederates. 
PICARD: Do we know that for sure? 
SATIE: Of course he did. Do you think J'Dan could have come on board
the flagship of the Federation and accomplished what he did without
help from within? 
PICARD: I agree it would be difficult, but not impossible. 
WORF: We should continue to investigate Tarses. He was hiding
something. 
SABIN: Captain Picard Lieutenant Worf and I have been working well
together. I suggest we continue, if for no other purpose than to
determine Tarses' innocence. 
PICARD: Now, please! Let me remind you he is innocent until he is
proved guilty. 
SATIE: Of course he is. What Sabin is saying is that he and Lieutenant
Worf would like to establish his innocence unequivocally, for his own
sake. 
PICARD: Very well. But let us put this to rest as quickly as possible.

