PICARD TARSES WORF SATIE
battlefield consider big planet ready quick partner unethical day

[Observation lounge]

WORF: You and Crewman Marcus will coordinate to
track Tarses' movements over the last five years. Ensign Kellogg, I
want a list of all relatives, known associates, and especially old
school friends. And make arrangements to do an encephalographic
polygraph scan. 
PICARD: Mister Worf? 
WORF: Yes, Captain? 
PICARD: I need to speak with you. 
WORF: You are dismissed. Please get your reports to me as soon as
possible. 
(the security officers leave) 
PICARD: Do you see what is happening here, Mister Worf? 
WORF: Sir? 
PICARD: This is not unlike a drumhead trial. 
WORF: I do not understand. 
PICARD: Five hundred years ago, military officers would upend a drum on
the battlefield sit at it and dispense summary justice. Decisions were
quick, punishments severe, appeals denied. Those who came to a drumhead
were doomed. 
WORF: But we know there is a traitor here. J'Dan has admitted his
guilt. 
PICARD: That's true, and he will stand for his crimes. 
WORF: Tarses has all but done the same. 
PICARD: How? 
WORF: He refused to answer the question about his Romulan grandfather. 
PICARD: That is not a crime, Worf. Nor can we infer his guilt because
he didn't respond. 
WORF: Sir, if a man were not afraid of the truth, he would answer. 
PICARD: Oh, no. We cannot allow ourselves think that. The Seventh
Guarantee is one of the most important rights granted by the
Federation. We cannot take a fundamental principle of the Constitution
and turn it against a citizen. 
WORF: Sir, the Federation does have enemies. We must seek them out. 
PICARD: Oh, yes. That's how it starts. But the road from legitimate
suspicion to rampant paranoia is very much shorter than we think.
Something is wrong here, Mister Worf. I don't like what we have become.

[Picard's quarters]

(Picard is pouring tea) 
PICARD: There you are, Mister Tarses. Would you care for some lemon? 
TARSES: No, thank you, sir. This is fine. 
PICARD: Well, tell me a little about yourself, Crewman. I know you were
born on Mars Colony. 
TARSES: Yes, sir. All my life I wanted to be in Starfleet. I went to
the Academy's training programme for enlisted personnel. I took
training as a medical technician and I served at several outposts. The
day that I was posted to the Enterprise was the happiest day of my
life. 
PICARD: Did you ever consider applying to the Academy, going the whole
route, apply to become an officer? 
TARSES: My parents wanted me to. And then I thought about it. I used to
sit under this big tree near the parade grounds 
PICARD: An elm tree with a circular bench? 
TARSES: Yes, that's the one. 
PICARD: I spent many an hour there. It was my favourite spot to study. 
TARSES: I used to sit under that tree and watch the drills, picture
myself an officer. I know that it would have made my mother very happy,
but. 
PICARD: You didn't do it. 
TARSES: No. I was eighteen, and eager. The last thing I wanted to do
was spend four years sitting in classrooms. I wanted to be out there,
travelling the stars. I didn't want to wait for anything. And now it's
done, isn't it? My career in Starfleet is finished. 
PICARD: Not if you aren't guilty, Simon. 
TARSES: It doesn't matter. I lied on my application, and that mistake
will be with me for the rest of my life. 
[Corridor]

(Norah is giving instructions to her silent aide,
Nellen) 
SATIE: Mister Worf has found a brother who still lives on Mars Colony.
Contact someone there and have him interviewed. 
PICARD: Admiral Satie? 
SATIE: And start a background check into all his friends at the Academy
training programme. 
PICARD: Admiral Satie? 
SATIE: Yes, Captain? 
PICARD: I would like to have a word with you. 
SATIE: Of course. 
PICARD: In private and off the record. 
SATIE: Of course. After all, you are my partner in this.

[Ready room]

SATIE: I cannot possibly believe you mean this. 
PICARD: But I do. This must stop. It has gone too far. You lied to him
about the Engine Room. There were no volatile chemicals found there. 
SATIE: It was a tactic. A way of applying pressure. 
PICARD: We are hounding an innocent man. 
SATIE: And how, may I ask, have you managed to determine that? 
PICARD: I've talked with him. 
SATIE: I see. And he told you he was a victim of circumstance,
blameless and pure. 
PICARD: No, he admits his mistake in falsifying his application. That
does not make him a traitor. 
SATIE: How can you be so incredibly naive? Captain, may I tell you how
I've spent the last four years? From planet to Starbase to planet. I
have no home. I live on starships and shuttlecraft. I haven't seen a
family member in years. I have no friends. But I have a purpose. My
father taught me from the time I was a little girl still clutching a
blanket, that the United Federation of Planets is the most remarkable
institution ever conceived. And it is my cause to make sure that this
extraordinary union be preserved. I cannot imagine why you are trying
to block this investigation. There have been others in the past who
doubted me. They came to regret it. 
PICARD: The hearings on Simon Tarses will stop. If necessary, I will go
to Starfleet Command. 
SATIE: I have news for you, Captain. I've been in constant contact with
Starfleet Command. The hearings are not going to stop. They're going to
be expanded. 
PICARD: What are you saying? 
SATIE: I'm going to get to the heart of this conspiracy if it means
investigating every last person on this ship. And every hearing from
now on will be held in the presence of Admiral Thomas Henry of
Starfleet Security. I've requested he be brought here at once. 
PICARD: You never told me about this. 
SATIE: I report to Starfleet Command directly. I do not need your
permission or your approval for my decisions. 
PICARD: Admiral, what you're doing here is unethical. It's immoral.
I'll fight it. 
SATIE: Do what you must, Captain. And so will I.

