RIKER LAFORGE TARSES PICARD LAFORGE [OC] SABIN WORF SATIE CRUSHER DATA
suggested suspensions prevent simple inch asking understand romulan answer

[Ready room]

PICARD: Admiral. I have to tell you, you must not
expect me to permit any action against Mister Tarses solely on the
basis of Betazoid intuition. 
SATIE: Sabin has uncanny instincts. I've learned to trust them. 
PICARD: I'm not happy about this use of a Betazoid. 
SATIE: But you have a Betazoid counsellor. Surely you're aware of the
advantages. 
PICARD: There is a difference between a counsellor and an investigator.

SATIE: Are you saying you never use your counsellor during
interrogations? 
PICARD: Yes, I do, but I would not act solely on the basis of her
instinct. 
SATIE: Nor do I. 
PICARD: But you're asking, you're asking me to restrict Mister Tarses'
movements solely on the basis on Sabin's feeling. 
SATIE: If Counsellor Troi suggested to you that someone on the ship
were dangerous, would you not act on that? Observe him? Curb his
activity? 
PICARD: Yes, I admit I probably would. And perhaps I should re-evaluate
that behaviour. 
SATIE: Oh, nonsense. Let's keep our priorities straight. The important
thing is to uncover the conspiracy on this ship and
to prevent further damage. Now, if Tarses is a possible saboteur, you
cannot allow him access to sensitive areas of the ship, and I strongly
suggest continuous surveillance. 
PICARD: If we had clear evidence. 
SATIE: We will have clear evidence. Sabin and Lieutenant Worf are
continuing to investigate. But if you don't act until then, it may be
too late. 
PICARD: No. I won't treat a man as a criminal unless there is cause to
do so. 
SATIE: And while you're being so generous, you give a saboteur a chance
to strike again. Last time it was just a hatch
cover/ What if next time it's more serious? What if lives are lost? Can
you afford not to act? 
LAFORGE [OC]: Engineering to Captain Picard. 
PICARD: Yes, Mister La Forge. 
LAFORGE [OC]: Captain, could you come to Engineering right away? We've
got something interesting to show you. 
PICARD: I'll be right there.

[Engineering]

LAFORGE: Captain, we finally got in here about six
hours ago. We've been going over it inch by inch ever since. 
DATA: We have made micro-tomographic analyses of the dilithium chamber,
the hatch mounting, the blast pattern from the explosion. 
LAFORGE: We did mass spectrometer readings of the residue for chemical
content, sifted
through the debris for bomb fragments. 
SATIE: What did you find? 
LAFORGE: This is the frame for the hatch. It ruptured right along here.
When we take a reading of that spot. See? 
SATIE: I'm afraid I'm out of my element, Commander. You'll have to
interpret for me. 
PICARD: There are submicron fractures in the metal casing. 
LAFORGE: That's right. A breakdown of the atomic cohesive structure. 
SATIE: Yes? And what caused them? 
DATA: Those fractures suggest nothing more than simple neutron fatigue.
I would speculate that when the engine was last inspected at McKinley
station, the hatch casing was replaced with one which had an
undetectable defect. I believe, sir, that the conclusion to our
investigation must be that the explosion was not intentional. 
LAFORGE: That's the way I see it. This wasn't sabotage at all. It was
nothing more than an accident.

[Observation lounge]

SABIN: An accident? I find that hard to believe. 
PICARD: If my crew say there was no sabotage, then you can be sure
there was none. 
SATIE: Let us keep our perspective, gentlemen. Just because there was
no sabotage doesn't mean there isn't a conspiracy on this ship. We do
have a confessed spy. 
SABIN: And he had confederates. 
PICARD: Do we know that for sure? 
SATIE: Of course he did. Do you think J'Dan could have come on board
the flagship of the Federation and accomplished what he did without
help from within? 
PICARD: I agree it would be difficult, but not impossible. 
WORF: We should continue to investigate Tarses. He was hiding
something. 
SABIN: Captain Picard Lieutenant Worf and I have been working well
together. I suggest we continue, if for no other purpose than to
determine Tarses' innocence. 
PICARD: Now, please! Let me remind you he is innocent until he is
proved guilty. 
SATIE: Of course he is. What Sabin is saying is that he and Lieutenant
Worf would like to establish his innocence unequivocally, for his own
sake. 
PICARD: Very well. But let us put this to rest as quickly as possible.

[Interrogation room]

(Picard enters to a packed house) 
PICARD: You've opened the hearing to spectators? 
SATIE: It isn't good to have closed door proceedings for too long. It
invites rumour and speculation. 
PICARD: Nevertheless, Admiral, I think it would be wise 
SATIE: Because spies and saboteurs don't like the bright light of an
open inquiry. They're like roaches, scurrying for the dark corner. 
PICARD: This hearing is convened on Stardate 44780 as a continuing
inquiry into the activities of Crewman Simon Tarses. Mister Tarses, for
your own protection, I have assigned a counsel to you in the person of
Commander William Riker. 
TARSES: Thank you, sir, but I don't need protection. I have not done
anything wrong. 
SATIE: Doctor Crusher, have you observed Crewman Tarses with J'Dan? 
CRUSHER: Well, yes, he gave him his injection. 
SATIE: I meant outside of Sickbay. 
CRUSHER: I think so, perhaps in Ten Forward. 
SATIE: And whom else have you observed at these occasions? 
CRUSHER: I don't understand what relevance that has. It was an innocent
social gathering. 
SATIE: If it was so innocent, why do you hesitate to give us the names?

PICARD: Thank you, Doctor. (sotto) If you have a case to make against
Tarses, you had better make it, otherwise I'm stopping this here and
now. 
SABIN: Mister Tarses. Isn't it true that you have access to the
biological supplies in Sickbay? 
TARSES: It's part of my job, yes. 
SABIN: J'Dan used suspensions of deoxyribose to carry the encoded files
he stole. Isn't it true one of your duties is to prepare those
suspensions? 
TARSES: Several technicians share that job. 
SABIN: And isn't it true that your security clearance allows you access
to all the stores and files in Sickbay? Access which you can exercise
at any time? 
TARSES: Because I have access does not mean I 
SABIN: What would you say if I told you there is evidence that the
explosion in the engine room was caused by a corrosive
chemical. One that is kept stored in Sickbay. 
TARSES: I had nothing to do with that. 
SABIN: How can we believe you? How can we believe someone whom we know,
we know, to be a liar? 
RIKER: I object! There is no basis for calling Crewman Tarses a liar. 
PICARD: Agreed. Mister Sabin. 
SABIN: Captain, there is a basis which will become clear in a moment.
Mister Tarses, didn't you deliberately and
premeditatively lied when you filled out your personnel application and
compounded that lie by repeating it to this committee? 
TARSES: What? 
SABIN: Isn't it true that the paternal grandfather of whom you speak
was not a Vulcan but was in fact a Romulan? That it is
Romulan blood you carry and a Romulan heritage that you honour? 
(Riker whispers in Simon's ear) 
SABIN: We're waiting, Mister Tarses. 
TARSES: On the advice of my counsel I refuse to answer that question,
in that the answer may serve to incriminate me.

