LAFORGE WORF PICARD J'DAN SATIE DATA
core oh secret sabin visual report believe friends milliseconds

[Corridor]

J'DAN: I have friends, powerful friends, on the
homeworld. I could talk to them. They might help to restore your name,
if you could just take me to a shuttlecraft.

[J'Dan's quarters]

J'DAN: It could be done without any one knowing
about it. 
(Worf hits J'Dan) 
WORF: I don't know how you transferred secret information to the
Romulans, but I will find out. 
J'DAN: Pahtk! 
WORF: When we inform the Klingon High Council, they will put you to a
slow death.

Captain's log, supplemental. Retired Admiral Norah
Satie, whose investigation exposed the alien conspiracy against
Starfleet Command three years ago, is
arriving to assist in our inquiry.

[Transporter room]

(an older woman in a long red robe beams in with a
male and female escort) 
SATIE: Captain Picard. 
PICARD: Admiral Satie. Welcome aboard the Enterprise. 
SATIE: Delighted to be here. I managed to acquire my former staff. My
aide, Sabin Genestra, from Betazed, and my assistant, Nellen Tore, from
Delb Two. 
PICARD: This is my First Officer, Commander William Riker. May I show
you to your quarters? 
SATIE: Captain, if Starfleet Command is so concerned with your report
they brought me out of retirement, I think I should get right to work. 
PICARD: Very well. Commander Riker, will you see to the Admiral's
staff? 
SATIE: First, I'd like to inspect the damage to your engine room.

[Engineering]

PICARD: Admiral Satie, this is Commander Data,
Commander La Forge. 
LAFORGE: Admiral. We still can't get in there, Captain. The radiation
levels are dropping, but they're too high to raise the isolation door. 
PICARD: How much longer will it be? 
DATA: At the rate the levels are decreasing, we will gain entry in
forty nine hours, Captain. 
LAFORGE: Maybe the Admiral would like to see the visual log of the
explosion. 
SATIE: Yes. 
LAFORGE: This was logged four days ago at oh three hundred hours. 
(a picture on the monitor of the warp core, labelled sensor log
playback 44765.3 03.00.59.941. Part of the core goes bang) 
LAFORGE: At that point the emergency confinement field was activated
and the isolation doors came down. No one was killed, but I have two
people in Sickbay with radiation burns. 
SATIE: Have you been able to make any assessments? 
DATA: Slow motion study of the explosion suggests that the articulation
frame collapsed. 
SATIE: The schematics that were stolen from the Enterprise, I believe
some involved the articulation frame of the dilithium chamber. 
PICARD: That's one reason we tend to suspect sabotage. 
DATA: Other evidence lends credence to that theory, Captain. A review
of the sensor logs indicates that every systems reading was well within
normal parameters until fifty two milliseconds before the explosion. 
LAFORGE: We haven't found anything that suggests there was a
malfunction anywhere along the line. 
SATIE: Captain, I think I'm going to need a full briefing before we go
any further. 
PICARD: By all means, Admiral. 
SATIE: Commander Data, La Forge, I don't envy you your job. Good luck.

