PICARD SATIE WORF SABIN J'DAN
hypospray referee conveyor fluid wrong right klingons bloodstream think

[Ready room]

PICARD: There are disturbing overtones in the idea
of a Klingon providing information to the Romulans. Are you aware of
any other Klingon-Romulan connection that Starfleet Command might have
encountered recently? 
SATIE: I don't believe what Starfleet Command knows or doesn't know is
for me to reveal. 
PICARD: This ship has encountered several incidents which might suggest
a potential alliance between those two powers. 
SATIE: We're aware of that, Captain. What we must concentrate on is the
business at hand. 
(doorbell) 
PICARD: Come. 
WORF: Excuse me, Captain, I didn't know that 
PICARD: Please, Mister Worf, come in. I particularly want my guest to
meet you. Admiral Satie. This is my Head of Security, Lieutenant Worf. 
WORF: Captain, I have been pursuing the investigation of Lieutenant
J'Dan. I believe I know how he transferred information off the
Enterprise. 
SATIE: Well done, Lieutenant. 
WORF: (hands over a hypospray) This is J'Dan's. A hypospray he uses to
treat his Ba'ltmasor Syndrome. But this has been fitted with an optical
reader specially modified to read data from Starfleet isolinear chips.
He can extract digital information from a computer, encode it in the
form of amino acid sequences, and transfer those sequences into a fluid
in the syringe. Then he injects someone, perhaps even without their
knowledge. 
SATIE: Or perhaps with their knowledge. 
WORF: The information would be carried in their bloodstream in the form
of inert proteins. 
SATIE: The body itself becomes a conveyor of top secret files.
Lieutenant Worf, when we confront J'Dan, I want you to conduct the
interrogation. 
WORF: I would be honoured. Captain. Admiral. 
(Worf leaves) 
SATIE: Captain, I predict that officer will be extremely valuable in
this investigation.

[Interrogation room]

WORF: I have tracked the movements of every person
who has left the Enterprise since you have been here. I traced one
Tarkanian diplomat as far as the Cruces system where he disappeared and
has not been seen since. 
J'DAN: That proves nothing. 
WORF: A hyposyringe was discovered in your quarters. 
J'DAN: I take injections. Everyone knows that. 
WORF: But your injections do not include an optical chip reader. This
device has but one function, to transform computer information into
biological sequences. 
J'DAN: The blood of all Klingons has become water. Since the Federation
alliance we have turned into a nation of mewling babies. Romulans are
strong. They are worthy allies. They do not turn Klingons into
weaklings like you. 
SATIE: Lieutenant, how did you damage the dilithium chamber? 
J'DAN: I had nothing to do with that 
SATIE: You mean it was sheer coincidence that it was sabotaged after
you gave the plans for the design to the Romulans? 
J'DAN: I do not know. I had nothing to do with it. 
SATIE: You've admitted your crime. Why lie now? 
J'DAN: I am not lying. 
PICARD: Mister Worf, you may have him confined. 
(Worf and J'Dan leave) 
SATIE: Sabin? 
SABIN: I believe he's telling the truth. He admits stealing the files
but not sabotaging the dilithium chamber. I get no sense that he's
lying. 
PICARD: But if you're right, someone else may be involved. 
SATIE: I think, Captain, you have a bigger problem on your ship than
one Klingon exchange officer. 
[Satie's quarters]

(the Admiral is serving tea, I think) 
SATIE: I've seen this before. The spectre of conspiracy on a starship
is a frightening one. 
PICARD: I can scarcely believe it myself, but I am so grateful for your
presence, Admiral. If anyone in Starfleet can help us, it's you. 
SATIE: Captain, I find myself changing my mind about you. 
PICARD: In what way? 
SATIE: When Starfleet ordered me here, it was with the express command
that we work together on this problem as equals. My father taught me to
avoid partnerships. Most of them are woefully lop-sided. 
PICARD: That sounds like Judge Aaron Satie. 
SATIE: You knew my father? 
PICARD: Only from his writings. His judgments were required reading at
the Academy. 
SATIE: He was an extraordinary man. Every night at the dinner table he
would pose a question for debate. My big brothers and I would wrangle
it around, from one side and the other. Father would referee, and he
kept a stopwatch on us so we'd have to learn brevity. But he wouldn't
let us leave until he thought we'd completely explored the issue. 
PICARD: I'm willing to wager that you trounced your brothers during
those debates. 
SATIE: More than once. Father loved it when I nailed one of them with
some subtle point of logic. All that I am, I owe to him. He was a
giant. 
PICARD: You must miss him very much. 
SATIE: Captain, I always preferred working alone. That way, if
something goes wrong, I don't have to go far for the cause. I resented
you being assigned to me, but I was wrong. We're going to be quite a
team.

[Observation lounge]

WORF: J'Dan did not make friends easily. There are
not many to question. 
SABIN: You've done a thorough job, Lieutenant. 
WORF: I am strongly motivated in this matter. 
SABIN: Yes, I can see that. I don't mind telling you I'm surprised.
Frankly, when I first heard about your father. 
WORF: My father? 
SABIN: Yes. There are some who believe he betrayed your people to the
Romulans. 
WORF: What he did or did not do is no one's concern but my own 
SABIN: Of course. I only meant before I saw you in action, I naturally
considered you a possible security risk. But I want you to know you
have the Admiral's and my complete confidence. You have nothing to
prove to us. 
WORF: If there is a conspiracy on board, I promise you I will find it. 
SABIN: Good. You know the ship, you know the personnel, you know
exactly what we're up against. We're counting on you, Lieutenant. 
WORF: I will arrange for the interviews to begin.

