RIKER TARSES WORF PICARD SABIN SATIE CRUSHER
meant suspensions training wise working paternal relevance applying day

[Observation lounge]

SABIN: An accident? I find that hard to believe. 
PICARD: If my crew say there was no sabotage, then you can be sure
there was none. 
SATIE: Let us keep our perspective, gentlemen. Just because there was
no sabotage doesn't mean there isn't a conspiracy on this ship. We do
have a confessed spy. 
SABIN: And he had confederates. 
PICARD: Do we know that for sure? 
SATIE: Of course he did. Do you think J'Dan could have come on board
the flagship of the Federation and accomplished what he did without
help from within? 
PICARD: I agree it would be difficult, but not impossible. 
WORF: We should continue to investigate Tarses. He was hiding
something. 
SABIN: Captain Picard Lieutenant Worf and I have been working well
together. I suggest we continue, if for no other purpose than to
determine Tarses' innocence. 
PICARD: Now, please! Let me remind you he is innocent until he is
proved guilty. 
SATIE: Of course he is. What Sabin is saying is that he and Lieutenant
Worf would like to establish his innocence unequivocally, for his own
sake. 
PICARD: Very well. But let us put this to rest as quickly as possible.

[Interrogation room]

(Picard enters to a packed house) 
PICARD: You've opened the hearing to spectators? 
SATIE: It isn't good to have closed door proceedings for too long. It
invites rumour and speculation. 
PICARD: Nevertheless, Admiral, I think it would be wise 
SATIE: Because spies and saboteurs don't like the bright light of an
open inquiry. They're like roaches, scurrying for the dark corner. 
PICARD: This hearing is convened on Stardate 44780 as a continuing
inquiry into the activities of Crewman Simon Tarses. Mister Tarses, for
your own protection, I have assigned a counsel to you in the person of
Commander William Riker. 
TARSES: Thank you, sir, but I don't need protection. I have not done
anything wrong. 
SATIE: Doctor Crusher, have you observed Crewman Tarses with J'Dan? 
CRUSHER: Well, yes, he gave him his injection. 
SATIE: I meant outside of Sickbay. 
CRUSHER: I think so, perhaps in Ten Forward. 
SATIE: And whom else have you observed at these occasions? 
CRUSHER: I don't understand what relevance that has. It was an innocent
social gathering. 
SATIE: If it was so innocent, why do you hesitate to give us the names?

PICARD: Thank you, Doctor. (sotto) If you have a case to make against
Tarses, you had better make it, otherwise I'm stopping this here and
now. 
SABIN: Mister Tarses. Isn't it true that you have access to the
biological supplies in Sickbay? 
TARSES: It's part of my job, yes. 
SABIN: J'Dan used suspensions of deoxyribose to carry the encoded files
he stole. Isn't it true one of your duties is to prepare those
suspensions? 
TARSES: Several technicians share that job. 
SABIN: And isn't it true that your security clearance allows you access
to all the stores and files in Sickbay? Access which you can exercise
at any time? 
TARSES: Because I have access does not mean I 
SABIN: What would you say if I told you there is evidence that the
explosion in the engine room was caused by a corrosive
chemical. One that is kept stored in Sickbay. 
TARSES: I had nothing to do with that. 
SABIN: How can we believe you? How can we believe someone whom we know,
we know, to be a liar? 
RIKER: I object! There is no basis for calling Crewman Tarses a liar. 
PICARD: Agreed. Mister Sabin. 
SABIN: Captain, there is a basis which will become clear in a moment.
Mister Tarses, didn't you deliberately and
premeditatively lied when you filled out your personnel application and
compounded that lie by repeating it to this committee? 
TARSES: What? 
SABIN: Isn't it true that the paternal grandfather of whom you speak
was not a Vulcan but was in fact a Romulan? That it is
Romulan blood you carry and a Romulan heritage that you honour? 
(Riker whispers in Simon's ear) 
SABIN: We're waiting, Mister Tarses. 
TARSES: On the advice of my counsel I refuse to answer that question,
in that the answer may serve to incriminate me.

[Observation lounge]

WORF: You and Crewman Marcus will coordinate to
track Tarses' movements over the last five years. Ensign Kellogg, I
want a list of all relatives, known associates, and especially old
school friends. And make arrangements to do an encephalographic
polygraph scan. 
PICARD: Mister Worf? 
WORF: Yes, Captain? 
PICARD: I need to speak with you. 
WORF: You are dismissed. Please get your reports to me as soon as
possible. 
(the security officers leave) 
PICARD: Do you see what is happening here, Mister Worf? 
WORF: Sir? 
PICARD: This is not unlike a drumhead trial. 
WORF: I do not understand. 
PICARD: Five hundred years ago, military officers would upend a drum on
the battlefield sit at it and dispense summary justice. Decisions were
quick, punishments severe, appeals denied. Those who came to a drumhead
were doomed. 
WORF: But we know there is a traitor here. J'Dan has admitted his
guilt. 
PICARD: That's true, and he will stand for his crimes. 
WORF: Tarses has all but done the same. 
PICARD: How? 
WORF: He refused to answer the question about his Romulan grandfather. 
PICARD: That is not a crime, Worf. Nor can we infer his guilt because
he didn't respond. 
WORF: Sir, if a man were not afraid of the truth, he would answer. 
PICARD: Oh, no. We cannot allow ourselves think that. The Seventh
Guarantee is one of the most important rights granted by the
Federation. We cannot take a fundamental principle of the Constitution
and turn it against a citizen. 
WORF: Sir, the Federation does have enemies. We must seek them out. 
PICARD: Oh, yes. That's how it starts. But the road from legitimate
suspicion to rampant paranoia is very much shorter than we think.
Something is wrong here, Mister Worf. I don't like what we have become.

[Picard's quarters]

(Picard is pouring tea) 
PICARD: There you are, Mister Tarses. Would you care for some lemon? 
TARSES: No, thank you, sir. This is fine. 
PICARD: Well, tell me a little about yourself, Crewman. I know you were
born on Mars Colony. 
TARSES: Yes, sir. All my life I wanted to be in Starfleet. I went to
the Academy's training programme for enlisted personnel. I took
training as a medical technician and I served at several outposts. The
day that I was posted to the Enterprise was the happiest day of my
life. 
PICARD: Did you ever consider applying to the Academy, going the whole
route, apply to become an officer? 
TARSES: My parents wanted me to. And then I thought about it. I used to
sit under this big tree near the parade grounds 
PICARD: An elm tree with a circular bench? 
TARSES: Yes, that's the one. 
PICARD: I spent many an hour there. It was my favourite spot to study. 
TARSES: I used to sit under that tree and watch the drills, picture
myself an officer. I know that it would have made my mother very happy,
but. 
PICARD: You didn't do it. 
TARSES: No. I was eighteen, and eager. The last thing I wanted to do
was spend four years sitting in classrooms. I wanted to be out there,
travelling the stars. I didn't want to wait for anything. And now it's
done, isn't it? My career in Starfleet is finished. 
PICARD: Not if you aren't guilty, Simon. 
TARSES: It doesn't matter. I lied on my application, and that mistake
will be with me for the rest of my life. 
