WORF PICARD SABIN NELLEN SATIE PIKER DATA
starships interrogation person justice freedom question planet trial neutral

[Corridor]

(Norah is giving instructions to her silent aide,
Nellen) 
SATIE: Mister Worf has found a brother who still lives on Mars Colony.
Contact someone there and have him interviewed. 
PICARD: Admiral Satie? 
SATIE: And start a background check into all his friends at the Academy
training programme. 
PICARD: Admiral Satie? 
SATIE: Yes, Captain? 
PICARD: I would like to have a word with you. 
SATIE: Of course. 
PICARD: In private and off the record. 
SATIE: Of course. After all, you are my partner in this.

[Ready room]

SATIE: I cannot possibly believe you mean this. 
PICARD: But I do. This must stop. It has gone too far. You lied to him
about the Engine Room. There were no volatile chemicals found there. 
SATIE: It was a tactic. A way of applying pressure. 
PICARD: We are hounding an innocent man. 
SATIE: And how, may I ask, have you managed to determine that? 
PICARD: I've talked with him. 
SATIE: I see. And he told you he was a victim of circumstance,
blameless and pure. 
PICARD: No, he admits his mistake in falsifying his application. That
does not make him a traitor. 
SATIE: How can you be so incredibly naive? Captain, may I tell you how
I've spent the last four years? From planet to Starbase to planet. I
have no home. I live on starships and shuttlecraft. I haven't seen a
family member in years. I have no friends. But I have a purpose. My
father taught me from the time I was a little girl still clutching a
blanket, that the United Federation of Planets is the most remarkable
institution ever conceived. And it is my cause to make sure that this
extraordinary union be preserved. I cannot imagine why you are trying
to block this investigation. There have been others in the past who
doubted me. They came to regret it. 
PICARD: The hearings on Simon Tarses will stop. If necessary, I will go
to Starfleet Command. 
SATIE: I have news for you, Captain. I've been in constant contact with
Starfleet Command. The hearings are not going to stop. They're going to
be expanded. 
PICARD: What are you saying? 
SATIE: I'm going to get to the heart of this conspiracy if it means
investigating every last person on this ship. And every hearing from
now on will be held in the presence of Admiral Thomas Henry of
Starfleet Security. I've requested he be brought here at once. 
PICARD: You never told me about this. 
SATIE: I report to Starfleet Command directly. I do not need your
permission or your approval for my decisions. 
PICARD: Admiral, what you're doing here is unethical. It's immoral.
I'll fight it. 
SATIE: Do what you must, Captain. And so will I.

[Bridge]

DATA: Captain, warp engines are back online. We are
ready to commence restart sequences. Sir? 
PICARD: Yes? Yes, yes, of course. Proceed, Mister Data. 
PIKER: Are you all right, Captain? 
PICARD: Yes, of course, Number One. Just a little preoccupied. 
NELLEN: Admiral Satie has ordered you to report to the interrogation
room at oh nine hundred hours tomorrow morning. You are to be
questioned before the committee.

Captain's log, supplemental. Admiral Thomas Henry,
who has worked closely with Norah Satie in the past, has arrived to
observe the hearings. 
[Interrogation room]

SABIN: Your full name? 
PICARD: Jean-Luc Picard. 
SABIN: Rank and position? 
PICARD: Captain, Federation Starship Enterprise. 
SABIN: How long have you held this post? 
PICARD: For three years, since stardate 41124. 
SABIN: Very well. Admiral? 
PICARD: If you don't mind, there's something I'd like to say. 
SATIE: If you have a statement, you'll have an opportunity to make it
later. 
PICARD: I believe that Chapter Four, Article Twelve of the Uniform Code
of Justice grants me the right to make a statement before questioning
begins. 
SATIE: Very well. 
PICARD: I am deeply concerned by what is happening here. It began when
we apprehended a spy, a man who admitted his guilt and who will answer
for his crime. But the hunt didn't end there. Another man, Mister Simon
Tarses, was brought to trial and it was a trial, no matter what others
choose to call it. A trial based on insinuation and innuendo. Nothing
substantive offered against Mister Tarses, much less proven. Mister
Tarses' grandfather is Romulan, and for that reason his career now
stands in ruins. Have we become so fearful? Have we become so cowardly
that we must extinguish a man because he carries the blood of a current
enemy? Admiral, let us not condemn Simon Tarses, or anyone else,
because of their bloodlines, or investigate others for their innocent
associations. I implore you, do not continue with this proceeding. End
it now. 
SATIE: Captain, do you believe in the Prime Directive? 
PICARD: Of course. 
SATIE: In fact, it's Starfleet General Order Number One, is it not? 
PICARD: Your point, Admiral? 
SATIE: Would it surprise you to learn that you have violated the Prime
Directive a total of nine times since you took command of the
Enterprise? I must say, Captain, it surprised the hell out of me. 
PICARD: My reports to Starfleet document the circumstances in each of
those instances 
SATIE: Yes, we're looking into those reports, Captain, very closely
into those reports, after which I'm sure we'll have more questions for
you about your so-called commitment to Starfleet's Prime Directive. 
SABIN: Captain, could you tell us just what happened on Stardate 44390?

PICARD: I beg your pardon? 
SABIN: Let me refresh your memory. You were transporting a Vulcan
ambassador, T'Pel. 
PICARD: I was following orders to take this ambassador to a location
near the Neutral Zone. 
SATIE: I don't think we need the preamble. 
SABIN: In fact, she was not a Vulcan at all, was she? She was a Romulan
spy. 
PICARD: That's correct. 
SABIN: A spy whom you were delivering back into the hands of the enemy.

SATIE: Tell me, Captain, when the deception was revealed and she stood
proudly on the bridge of a Romulan ship, did you make any effort to
retrieve her? 
PICARD: No. 
SATIE: No. Even though you knew she carried Federation secrets that
she'd been accumulating for years? 
WORF: The Enterprise could have been captured by the Romulans! Captain
Picard did the only thing he could. 
SATIE: Really, Lieutenant? And where were you when this traitor was on
board the Enterprise? Where was ship's Security? 
SABIN: Don't you think it's questionable judgment, Captain, to have a
security officer whose father was a Romulan collaborator? 
(Worf takes a couple of steps forward) 
PICARD: Lieutenant. 
SATIE: Tell me, Captain, have you completely recovered from your
experience with the Borg? 
PICARD: Yes, I have completely recovered. 
SATIE: It must have been awful for you, actually becoming one of them,
being forced to use your vast knowledge of Starfleet operations to aid
the Borg. Just how many of our ships were lost? Thirty nine? And a loss
of life, I believe, measured at nearly eleven thousand. One wonders how
you can sleep at night, having caused so much destruction. I question
your actions, Captain. I question your choices. I question your
loyalty. 
PICARD: You know, there some words I've known since I was a school boy.
With the first link, the chain is forged. The first speech censured,
the first thought forbidden, the first freedom denied, chains us all
irrevocably. Those words were uttered by Judge Aaron Satie as wisdom
and warning. The first time any man's freedom is trodden on, we're all
damaged. I fear that today 
SATIE: How dare you! You who consort with Romulans invoke my father's
name to support your traitorous arguments. It is an offence to
everything I hold dear. And to hear those words used to subvert the
United Federation of Planets. My father was a great man. His name
stands for integrity and principle. You dirty his name when you speak
it. He loved the Federation, but you, Captain, corrupt it. You
undermine our very way of life. I will expose you for what you are.
I've brought down bigger men than you, Picard! 
(Admiral Henry walks out) 
SATIE: I have nothing more to say. 
SABIN: Perhaps we should call a recess until tomorrow.

