LWAXANA [OC] TROI TROI [OC] WORF RIKER [OC] RIKER B'TARDAT [on monitor] TIMICIN LWAXANA O'BRIEN PICARD CRUSHER DATA LAFORGE
certain able terminate anticipated matter betazoid commit rid hate

[Transporter room]

LWAXANA: What do you mean, I can't go down there?
Are you telling me that I'm a prisoner on this ship? 
TROI: Mother? What's going on? What are you doing? 
O'BRIEN: I'm sorry, Counsellor, I'm not sure what to do here. 
LWAXANA: Well, I am sure! I am a Betazoid ambassador. I'm a Daughter of
the Fifth House, and those people are going to answer to me! So you
just energise this damned thing and get me down there! 
TROI: He can't, Mother. He has his orders. 
LWAXANA: His orders don't apply to me. 
TROI: No, they apply to him. 
LWAXANA: Don't you try your professional patronising on me, young lady.
They expect Timicin to die, don't you realise that? Just because he's
sixty! What's sixty? It's nothing. 
(Lwaxana bursts into tears) 
O'BRIEN: I'll go check the pattern buffers. 
(O'Brien locks the controls and leaves) 
TROI [OC]: Come on, Mother, let's sit down. 
LWAXANA [OC]: I'm sorry, little one. I don't know what's wrong with me.
I'm sorry. 
TROI [OC]: There's no need to be. 
LWAXANA [OC]: But I'm crying. I don't cry. 
TROI [OC]: You cried when father died. 
LWAXANA: You remember that? 
TROI: Of course I remember. We both cried. 
LWAXANA: But this isn't the same. Is it? 
TROI: What do you think? 
LWAXANA: I don't know. I just can't accept that fate will allow me to
meet him like this and then take him away. I mean, he's not ill. He
hasn't had a tragic accident. He's just going to die, and for no good
reason. Because his society has decided that he's too old, so they just
dispose of him as though his life no longer had value or meaning. You
can't possibly understand at your age, but at mine, sometimes you feel
tired and afraid. 
TROI: You're feeling very vulnerable. Very mortal, if I may say so. I
know you, Mother, and believe me, you will never be one of those who
dies before they die.

[Timicin's quarters]

TIMICIN: Come in. 
(Lwaxana enters) 
TIMICIN: I've been studying the preliminary reports of the test. I
don't understand where I went wrong. I thought I'd taken into account
all of the variables. Deep convection patterns, proton reactions,
neutrino count. 
(Lwaxana rubs his back and shoulders) 
TIMICIN: I will say it again. You are a kind woman. 
LWAXANA: No, no, I'm a hateful woman. I hate what you're going to do,
and I hate you for doing it. 
TIMICIN: It is the way of my world. I wish you could accept that. 
LWAXANA: I never will. Never. 
(they kiss) 
(later, Lwaxana is wearing a loose robe and a big smile, as Timicin
wakes up) 
TIMICIN: How long have you been sitting there? 
LWAXANA: I don't know. A minute. An hour. 
TIMICIN: Lwaxana 
LWAXANA: Do you want anything? Some tea? 
TIMICIN: I want to explain. I want very much for you to understand.
Fifteen or twenty centuries ago, we had no Resolution. We had no such
concern for our elders. As people aged, their health failed, they
became invalids. Those whose families could no longer care for them
were put away in deathwatch facilities, where they waited in loneliness
for the end to come, sometimes for years. They had meant something, and
they were forced to live beyond that, into a time of meaning nothing,
of knowing they could now only be the beneficiaries of younger people's
patience. We are no longer that cruel, Lwaxana. 
LWAXANA: No, no, you're not cruel to them. You just kill them. 
TIMICIN: The Resolution is a celebration of life. It allows us to end
our lives with dignity. 
LWAXANA: A celebration of life. It sounds very noble, very caring. What
you're really saying is you got rid of the problem by getting rid of
the people. 
TIMICIN: It may sound that way, but it is a time of transition. One
generation passing on the responsibilities of life to the next. 
LWAXANA: What about the responsibility of caring of the elderly? 
TIMICIN: That would place a dreadful burden on the children. 
LWAXANA: We raise them, we care for them, we suffer for them. We keep
them from harm their whole lives. Eventually, it's their turn to take
care of us. 
TIMICIN: No parent should expect to be paid back for the love they've
given their children. 
LWAXANA: Well why the hell not? (to the replicator) Oskoids. 
TIMICIN: What's that? 
LWAXANA: (eating) Oskoids. A Betazed delicacy. 
TIMICIN: Looks very interesting. 
LWAXANA: You should have tried it while you were still alive. No reason
to bother now. Why sixty? Why not sixty two, or fifty eight? 
TIMICIN: A reasonable age had to be set. 
LWAXANA: But it's not reasonable. Certainly not in your case. You're as
vital and healthy a man as I've ever known. 
TIMICIN: That is why I wish to say goodbye to my family and colleagues
while I am this way, in complete command of my faculties, knowing they
will always remember me as a strong and vigorous man. 
LWAXANA: But it makes no sense. Some of your people could still be
active at seventy or eighty, and others might be seriously ill at
fifty. How cruel of you to make them wait so long to commit suicide. 
TIMICIN: Setting a standard age for the Resolution makes it uniform for
everybody. To ask individual families to decide when their elders are
to die, that would be heartless. 
LWAXANA: I agree. Why not let everybody die when they die. 
TIMICIN: Lwaxana. 
LWAXANA: You have a grandson, you said. 
TIMICIN: Yes, almost seven. 
LWAXANA: Well, wouldn't it be better for him to know his grandfather?
Not some vague memory of someone who once loved him, but a real living
person who does love him. Don't you really think that would be better? 
TIMICIN: I attended the Resolution of my parents when it was their
time. It was beautiful. Lwaxana, this is a custom I've known and
accepted all my life. 
LWAXANA: The women of Betazed used to wear these enormous wigs with
large holes in the cenre for tiny caged animals. 
TIMICIN: Yes. 
LWAXANA: First, it was a fashion. Then it went on long enough to become
a custom, a tradition. But it was uncomfortable for the woman and
cruel to the animal. So then one day, one very formidable woman finally
said so, refused ever to wear another of those wigs. fairly soon the
custom stopped. She had the courage to stand up and fight for change. 
TIMICIN: She must have been a lot like you. 
LWAXANA: Timicin, there is no one more qualified, more experienced, or
more likely to save their planet than you. And they would have you kill
yourself. 
TIMICIN: Younger scientists will take my place. My work, the work will
continue. 
LWAXANA: Your planet has what, thirty, forty years left? What if your
scientists can't find the answer without you? What then? What chance do
you think your grandson has of reaching the age of sixty? 
TIMICIN: Enough, please. It is my time, Lwaxana, and that is the way it
is. 
LWAXANA: If that's the way it is, I don't know why anyone's bothering
to try to save your world at all. If its time has come, let it die.
Where's the difference, Timicin? Where?

[Engineering]

TIMICIN: Convection boundary uncoupling. The
reaction caused gas turbulence of a totally unexpected magnitude. Why? 
DATA: There was a evidence of a delayed surface shock. 
TIMICIN: No, I'd anticipated that. I thought I'd anticipated all
possible variables, but stars, they're like living entities in a way.
Quite unpredictable. You know, I wouldn't be at all surprised if this
were the result of. Look here. Forty two seconds into the test, there
is a sudden rise in the level of hydrogen alpha emissions. And here,
here's another. I'm right, aren't I? There had to be neutron migration
within the star's inner core as the reaction grew. 
DATA: Perhaps, Doctor, but there is no known method for controlling a
neutron migration. 
TIMICIN: Yes, yes, but theoretically it is possible. Using these test
results, we could construct a new computer model of the energy dynamics
of a star that can test a new detonation programme. I'm certain it can
be accomplished. Certain. It's just a matter of time. A matter of time.

[Ready room]

PICARD: Come. Timicin. Time for you to leave us,
then? 
TIMICIN: Captain, I have come to officially request asylum aboard The
Enterprise. 
(later) 
B'TARDAT [on monitor]: Timicin, I cannot believe this. Why asylum?
Asylum from what? 
TIMICIN: I turn sixty in four days, Minister. 
B'TARDAT [on monitor]: Yes, and your family and colleagues are already
gathering for your Resolution. 
TIMICIN: I believe that it is time for us to re-examine, as a people,
the wisdom of The Resolution. 
B'TARDAT [on monitor]: Are they forcing you into this? Are you being
coerced? 
TIMICIN: Influenced, perhaps. Coerced, no. 
PICARD: Our only influence, Minister, is by example. Timicin's decision
is his own free will, I assure you. 
B'TARDAT [on monitor]: I cannot believe that a man of Timicin's stature
would freely choose to reject his own culture. 
TIMICIN: No one on Kaelon Two understands this project as I do. There
are new theories that would take others a decade to test and confirm.
With my guidance, it can be done in half that time. I must finish my
work. 
B'TARDAT [on monitor]: Others started your work, others will finish it.
It's always been this way. It always will. 
RIKER [OC]: Captain, scanners indicate two Kaelon warships rising on an
intercept course. 
PICARD: Acknowledged, Commander. Minister, we're here in friendship,
hoping to provide assistance. 
B'TARDAT [on monitor]: You have helped quite enough, Captain. I suggest
you return Timicin and depart. If you attempt to leave orbit with
Timicin on board, our ships have been ordered to open fire. 
TIMICIN: B'tardat, there's no purpose at all in letting this become 
(transmission ends) 
TIMICIN: It shouldn't have happened. I've handled this poorly. 
PICARD: You acted in good conscience, Doctor. I don't see what else you
could have done. 
TIMICIN: I could have let well enough alone. I could have returned
home. What do you think, Captain? Have I done the right thing? 
PICARD: I'm afraid you're the only one who can answer that. 
TIMICIN: Lwaxana would have me lead a revolt. I'm only a scientist. I
wish I had her strength. She is a woman of extraordinary conviction,
isn't she? 
PICARD: Isn't she.

[Bridge]

PICARD: Any communication, Number One? 
RIKER: No, sir. We have an open channel. 
WORF: The warships are taking a standard attack posture. Staggered
approach vectors, within weapons range. 
PICARD: Shields up. Red alert. 
TIMICIN: Captain. 
PICARD: Doctor, I suggest that you return to your quarters. 
TIMICIN: I don't want there to be any bloodshed because of my decision.

CRUSHER: They will be doing everything they can to avoid it. I think we
should get out of their way now. 
TIMICIN: Yes. Yes, of course. I understand. 
PICARD: Mister Worf, ascertain their offensive potential. 
WORF: Aye, sir. 
[Engineering]

TIMICIN: We must transmit the new analysis of the
neutron migration immediately. If I can make them see the direction
I've taken 
LAFORGE: We've already tried. 
DATA: They refuse to accept further reports from you, Doctor. 
TIMICIN: They have to accept them. If I can re-establish computer
interface with the science ministry. 
LAFORGE: They've disengaged the link-up, Doctor. 
TIMICIN: Why don't they answer? Even if I find the solution, you will
not accept it! Because I do not terminate my
life, they terminate my work. Alive, I am a greater threat to my world
than a dying sun.

[Corridor]

LWAXANA: But Jean-Luc will find a way to settle
this. He always does. 
TIMICIN: No, my decision will only lead to more distrust of other
worlds. Nothing will change. 
LWAXANA: Now don't be foolish. 
TIMICIN: I am not being foolish! Lwaxana, I want to live because I see
in you how much I have to live for. You make me realise that my life
still has value. I can be an example to my people. I can finish my
work. But discovering these new desires and not being able to do
anything about them, not being able to finish my work, not being able
to reach my people. 
LWAXANA: You have made a statement about the sanctity of life, and it
will be heard, Timicin. 
TIMICIN: Who will hear it from light years away? Where will I go now,
Lwaxana? I'm a man without a world. I can't go home. 
LWAXANA: Timicin. 
RIKER [OC]: Bridge to Doctor Timicin. You have a visitor coming aboard.

TIMICIN: B'Tardat?

[Bridge]

RIKER: No, sir. It's your daughter.

