RIKER OBRIEN LAFORGE PICARD ENSIGN TROI TIMICIN LWAXANA BTARDAT DATA

[Bridge]

DATA: Rate exceeding critical level. Core density
is becoming unstable. 
RIKER: Let's get the hell out of here. 
PICARD: Ensign, warp two now! 
(a bright new supernova lights the heavens)

[Engineering]

LAFORGE: Sorry. 
TIMICIN: Captain Picard? 
PICARD [OC]: Doctor? 
TIMICIN: Permit me to express my appreciation to you and your crew. I
am most grateful. Most grateful.

[Bridge]

PICARD: Ensign, lay in a course for Kaelon Two.
Warp factor five. 
ENSIGN: Aye, sir. 
[Ten Forward]

(Timicin is sitting gazing at the stars) 
LWAXANA: I'm so sorry, Timicin. I had one of those named after me once.
Brilliant young astronomer from Rigel Four. Of course, I sparkled a bit
myself in those days. You see, that's called fishing for a compliment.
You're supposed to tell me I still sparkle. I'm sorry, I'm not helping,
am I? 
TIMICIN: You're very kind. I'm just not adequate company right now. 
LWAXANA: Oh, that's all right, I can make enough conversation for both
of us. I'll leave you alone. 
TIMICIN: No. Please stay. I wanted to tell you how much I wish we had
met years ago. 
LWAXANA: What difference do a few years make? 
TIMICIN: Unfortunately, a great deal. You see, Lwaxana, I'm on my way
home now to die. 
Captain's log, stardate 44812.6. We have returned
to Kaelon Two, and established contact with Science Minister B'tardat.

[Ready room]

PICARD: The experiment achieved a stable core
temperature for a short time, Minister. That's a significant step
forward. 
RIKER: We've been studying the sensor logs and the torpedo telemetry to
determine if there was any malfunction. If there was, and we are able
to isolate the problem, another test might be successful. In the
meantime, all of our facilities would be made available to Doctor
Timicin. 
B'TARDAT [on monitor]: A most thoughtful and generous offer, but
Timicin has obligations at home. And it would take us some time to
select a replacement. 
PICARD: We would be more than willing to extend our visit, sir. 
B'TARDAT [on monitor]: That will not be necessary. We'll contact you as
soon as we're ready. We expect Timicin to return home as soon as
possible. And again, gentlemen, many thanks. 
(transmission ends, doorbell rings) 
PICARD: Come. 
(Lwaxana enters) 
LWAXANA: Are you aware these people you are so graciously helping are
murderers? 
PICARD: I beg your pardon? 
LWAXANA: Well the next thing to it. When a person on this benighted
little planet reaches the age of sixty, which Timicin is about to do,
they're expected to simply kill themselves. Did you know that? 
PICARD: Mister Data? 
DATA: The people of Kaelon Two are isolationists, almost to the point
of being xenophobes. Regrettably, we know very little about their
customs. 
LWAXANA: Well, I know. Timicin himself just told me. He is supposed to
go down there, to his loving friends, be wined, dined, honoured for his
achievements and then kill himself. It's a barbaric ritual. The
Resolution, it's called. Obviously, you can't let him go, Jean-Luc. 
PICARD: I'm afraid I have no choice. 
LWAXANA: I don't think you've been listening to me. The man is supposed
to kill himself. You don't just let that happen. You don't just turn
your back. What's the matter with you! 
PICARD: Lwaxana, I'm sorry, but whatever my personal feelings, I have
no jurisdiction here. I simply cannot interfere. 
LWAXANA: But you have to. In a situation like this, you absolutely have
to interfere. You've got to go down there and talk to those people,
Jean Luc. Open their eyes, educate them. 
PICARD: The Prime Directive forbids us to interfere with the social
order of any planet. 
LWAXANA: Well, that's your Prime Directive, not mine! 
(Lwaxana leaves) 
PICARD: Computer, locate Counsellor Troi.

[Transporter room]

LWAXANA: What do you mean, I can't go down there?
Are you telling me that I'm a prisoner on this ship? 
TROI: Mother? What's going on? What are you doing? 
O'BRIEN: I'm sorry, Counsellor, I'm not sure what to do here. 
LWAXANA: Well, I am sure! I am a Betazoid ambassador. I'm a Daughter of
the Fifth House, and those people are going to answer to me! So you
just energise this damned thing and get me down there! 
TROI: He can't, Mother. He has his orders. 
LWAXANA: His orders don't apply to me. 
TROI: No, they apply to him. 
LWAXANA: Don't you try your professional patronising on me, young lady.
They expect Timicin to die, don't you realise that? Just because he's
sixty! What's sixty? It's nothing. 
(Lwaxana bursts into tears) 
O'BRIEN: I'll go check the pattern buffers. 
(O'Brien locks the controls and leaves) 
TROI [OC]: Come on, Mother, let's sit down. 
LWAXANA [OC]: I'm sorry, little one. I don't know what's wrong with me.
I'm sorry. 
TROI [OC]: There's no need to be. 
LWAXANA [OC]: But I'm crying. I don't cry. 
TROI [OC]: You cried when father died. 
LWAXANA: You remember that? 
TROI: Of course I remember. We both cried. 
LWAXANA: But this isn't the same. Is it? 
TROI: What do you think? 
LWAXANA: I don't know. I just can't accept that fate will allow me to
meet him like this and then take him away. I mean, he's not ill. He
hasn't had a tragic accident. He's just going to die, and for no good
reason. Because his society has decided that he's too old, so they just
dispose of him as though his life no longer had value or meaning. You
can't possibly understand at your age, but at mine, sometimes you feel
tired and afraid. 
TROI: You're feeling very vulnerable. Very mortal, if I may say so. I
know you, Mother, and believe me, you will never be one of those who
dies before they die.

[Timicin's quarters]

TIMICIN: Come in. 
(Lwaxana enters) 
TIMICIN: I've been studying the preliminary reports of the test. I
don't understand where I went wrong. I thought I'd taken into account
all of the variables. Deep convection patterns, proton reactions,
neutrino count. 
(Lwaxana rubs his back and shoulders) 
TIMICIN: I will say it again. You are a kind woman. 
LWAXANA: No, no, I'm a hateful woman. I hate what you're going to do,
and I hate you for doing it. 
TIMICIN: It is the way of my world. I wish you could accept that. 
LWAXANA: I never will. Never. 
(they kiss) 
(later, Lwaxana is wearing a loose robe and a big smile, as Timicin
wakes up) 
TIMICIN: How long have you been sitting there? 
LWAXANA: I don't know. A minute. An hour. 
TIMICIN: Lwaxana 
LWAXANA: Do you want anything? Some tea? 
TIMICIN: I want to explain. I want very much for you to understand.
Fifteen or twenty centuries ago, we had no Resolution. We had no such
concern for our elders. As people aged, their health failed, they
became invalids. Those whose families could no longer care for them
were put away in deathwatch facilities, where they waited in loneliness
for the end to come, sometimes for years. They had meant something, and
they were forced to live beyond that, into a time of meaning nothing,
of knowing they could now only be the beneficiaries of younger people's
patience. We are no longer that cruel, Lwaxana. 
LWAXANA: No, no, you're not cruel to them. You just kill them. 
TIMICIN: The Resolution is a celebration of life. It allows us to end
our lives with dignity. 
LWAXANA: A celebration of life. It sounds very noble, very caring. What
you're really saying is you got rid of the problem by getting rid of
the people. 
TIMICIN: It may sound that way, but it is a time of transition. One
generation passing on the responsibilities of life to the next. 
LWAXANA: What about the responsibility of caring of the elderly? 
TIMICIN: That would place a dreadful burden on the children. 
LWAXANA: We raise them, we care for them, we suffer for them. We keep
them from harm their whole lives. Eventually, it's their turn to take
care of us. 
TIMICIN: No parent should expect to be paid back for the love they've
given their children. 
LWAXANA: Well why the hell not? (to the replicator) Oskoids. 
TIMICIN: What's that? 
LWAXANA: (eating) Oskoids. A Betazed delicacy. 
TIMICIN: Looks very interesting. 
LWAXANA: You should have tried it while you were still alive. No reason
to bother now. Why sixty? Why not sixty two, or fifty eight? 
TIMICIN: A reasonable age had to be set. 
LWAXANA: But it's not reasonable. Certainly not in your case. You're as
vital and healthy a man as I've ever known. 
TIMICIN: That is why I wish to say goodbye to my family and colleagues
while I am this way, in complete command of my faculties, knowing they
will always remember me as a strong and vigorous man. 
LWAXANA: But it makes no sense. Some of your people could still be
active at seventy or eighty, and others might be seriously ill at
fifty. How cruel of you to make them wait so long to commit suicide. 
TIMICIN: Setting a standard age for the Resolution makes it uniform for
everybody. To ask individual families to decide when their elders are
to die, that would be heartless. 
LWAXANA: I agree. Why not let everybody die when they die. 
TIMICIN: Lwaxana. 
LWAXANA: You have a grandson, you said. 
TIMICIN: Yes, almost seven. 
LWAXANA: Well, wouldn't it be better for him to know his grandfather?
Not some vague memory of someone who once loved him, but a real living
person who does love him. Don't you really think that would be better? 
TIMICIN: I attended the Resolution of my parents when it was their
time. It was beautiful. Lwaxana, this is a custom I've known and
accepted all my life. 
LWAXANA: The women of Betazed used to wear these enormous wigs with
large holes in the cenre for tiny caged animals. 
TIMICIN: Yes. 
LWAXANA: First, it was a fashion. Then it went on long enough to become
a custom, a tradition. But it was uncomfortable for the woman and
cruel to the animal. So then one day, one very formidable woman finally
said so, refused ever to wear another of those wigs. fairly soon the
custom stopped. She had the courage to stand up and fight for change. 
TIMICIN: She must have been a lot like you. 
LWAXANA: Timicin, there is no one more qualified, more experienced, or
more likely to save their planet than you. And they would have you kill
yourself. 
TIMICIN: Younger scientists will take my place. My work, the work will
continue. 
LWAXANA: Your planet has what, thirty, forty years left? What if your
scientists can't find the answer without you? What then? What chance do
you think your grandson has of reaching the age of sixty? 
TIMICIN: Enough, please. It is my time, Lwaxana, and that is the way it
is. 
LWAXANA: If that's the way it is, I don't know why anyone's bothering
to try to save your world at all. If its time has come, let it die.
Where's the difference, Timicin? Where?

[Engineering]

TIMICIN: Convection boundary uncoupling. The
reaction caused gas turbulence of a totally unexpected magnitude. Why? 
DATA: There was a evidence of a delayed surface shock. 
TIMICIN: No, I'd anticipated that. I thought I'd anticipated all
possible variables, but stars, they're like living entities in a way.
Quite unpredictable. You know, I wouldn't be at all surprised if this
were the result of. Look here. Forty two seconds into the test, there
is a sudden rise in the level of hydrogen alpha emissions. And here,
here's another. I'm right, aren't I? There had to be neutron migration
within the star's inner core as the reaction grew. 
DATA: Perhaps, Doctor, but there is no known method for controlling a
neutron migration. 
TIMICIN: Yes, yes, but theoretically it is possible. Using these test
results, we could construct a new computer model of the energy dynamics
of a star that can test a new detonation programme. I'm certain it can
be accomplished. Certain. It's just a matter of time. A matter of time.

