RIKER LAFORGE PICARD ENSIGN TIMICIN LWAXANA BTARDAT DATA

[Engineering]

(Composite sensor analysis 4077 display) 
LAFORGE: Two twenty two.

[Bridge]

DATA: Temperature is rising in the core again,
Captain. Two hundred and thirty million degrees Kelvin. 
LAFORGE [OC]: Still rising, Captain.

[Engineering]

LAFORGE: Two fifty one. 
[Bridge]

DATA: Rate exceeding critical level. Core density
is becoming unstable. 
RIKER: Let's get the hell out of here. 
PICARD: Ensign, warp two now! 
(a bright new supernova lights the heavens)

[Engineering]

LAFORGE: Sorry. 
TIMICIN: Captain Picard? 
PICARD [OC]: Doctor? 
TIMICIN: Permit me to express my appreciation to you and your crew. I
am most grateful. Most grateful.

[Bridge]

PICARD: Ensign, lay in a course for Kaelon Two.
Warp factor five. 
ENSIGN: Aye, sir. 
[Ten Forward]

(Timicin is sitting gazing at the stars) 
LWAXANA: I'm so sorry, Timicin. I had one of those named after me once.
Brilliant young astronomer from Rigel Four. Of course, I sparkled a bit
myself in those days. You see, that's called fishing for a compliment.
You're supposed to tell me I still sparkle. I'm sorry, I'm not helping,
am I? 
TIMICIN: You're very kind. I'm just not adequate company right now. 
LWAXANA: Oh, that's all right, I can make enough conversation for both
of us. I'll leave you alone. 
TIMICIN: No. Please stay. I wanted to tell you how much I wish we had
met years ago. 
LWAXANA: What difference do a few years make? 
TIMICIN: Unfortunately, a great deal. You see, Lwaxana, I'm on my way
home now to die. 
Captain's log, stardate 44812.6. We have returned
to Kaelon Two, and established contact with Science Minister B'tardat.

[Ready room]

PICARD: The experiment achieved a stable core
temperature for a short time, Minister. That's a significant step
forward. 
RIKER: We've been studying the sensor logs and the torpedo telemetry to
determine if there was any malfunction. If there was, and we are able
to isolate the problem, another test might be successful. In the
meantime, all of our facilities would be made available to Doctor
Timicin. 
B'TARDAT [on monitor]: A most thoughtful and generous offer, but
Timicin has obligations at home. And it would take us some time to
select a replacement. 
PICARD: We would be more than willing to extend our visit, sir. 
B'TARDAT [on monitor]: That will not be necessary. We'll contact you as
soon as we're ready. We expect Timicin to return home as soon as
possible. And again, gentlemen, many thanks. 
(transmission ends, doorbell rings) 
PICARD: Come. 
(Lwaxana enters) 
LWAXANA: Are you aware these people you are so graciously helping are
murderers? 
PICARD: I beg your pardon? 
LWAXANA: Well the next thing to it. When a person on this benighted
little planet reaches the age of sixty, which Timicin is about to do,
they're expected to simply kill themselves. Did you know that? 
PICARD: Mister Data? 
DATA: The people of Kaelon Two are isolationists, almost to the point
of being xenophobes. Regrettably, we know very little about their
customs. 
LWAXANA: Well, I know. Timicin himself just told me. He is supposed to
go down there, to his loving friends, be wined, dined, honoured for his
achievements and then kill himself. It's a barbaric ritual. The
Resolution, it's called. Obviously, you can't let him go, Jean-Luc. 
PICARD: I'm afraid I have no choice. 
LWAXANA: I don't think you've been listening to me. The man is supposed
to kill himself. You don't just let that happen. You don't just turn
your back. What's the matter with you! 
PICARD: Lwaxana, I'm sorry, but whatever my personal feelings, I have
no jurisdiction here. I simply cannot interfere. 
LWAXANA: But you have to. In a situation like this, you absolutely have
to interfere. You've got to go down there and talk to those people,
Jean Luc. Open their eyes, educate them. 
PICARD: The Prime Directive forbids us to interfere with the social
order of any planet. 
LWAXANA: Well, that's your Prime Directive, not mine! 
(Lwaxana leaves) 
PICARD: Computer, locate Counsellor Troi.

