TROI LAFORGE WORF RIKER [OC] B'TARDAT [on monitor] TIMICIN LWAXANA RIKER PICARD DARA CRUSHER DATA
lie suddenly terminate anticipated matter sorry approach beliefs dare

[Engineering]

TIMICIN: Convection boundary uncoupling. The
reaction caused gas turbulence of a totally unexpected magnitude. Why? 
DATA: There was a evidence of a delayed surface shock. 
TIMICIN: No, I'd anticipated that. I thought I'd anticipated all
possible variables, but stars, they're like living entities in a way.
Quite unpredictable. You know, I wouldn't be at all surprised if this
were the result of. Look here. Forty two seconds into the test, there
is a sudden rise in the level of hydrogen alpha emissions. And here,
here's another. I'm right, aren't I? There had to be neutron migration
within the star's inner core as the reaction grew. 
DATA: Perhaps, Doctor, but there is no known method for controlling a
neutron migration. 
TIMICIN: Yes, yes, but theoretically it is possible. Using these test
results, we could construct a new computer model of the energy dynamics
of a star that can test a new detonation programme. I'm certain it can
be accomplished. Certain. It's just a matter of time. A matter of time.

[Ready room]

PICARD: Come. Timicin. Time for you to leave us,
then? 
TIMICIN: Captain, I have come to officially request asylum aboard The
Enterprise. 
(later) 
B'TARDAT [on monitor]: Timicin, I cannot believe this. Why asylum?
Asylum from what? 
TIMICIN: I turn sixty in four days, Minister. 
B'TARDAT [on monitor]: Yes, and your family and colleagues are already
gathering for your Resolution. 
TIMICIN: I believe that it is time for us to re-examine, as a people,
the wisdom of The Resolution. 
B'TARDAT [on monitor]: Are they forcing you into this? Are you being
coerced? 
TIMICIN: Influenced, perhaps. Coerced, no. 
PICARD: Our only influence, Minister, is by example. Timicin's decision
is his own free will, I assure you. 
B'TARDAT [on monitor]: I cannot believe that a man of Timicin's stature
would freely choose to reject his own culture. 
TIMICIN: No one on Kaelon Two understands this project as I do. There
are new theories that would take others a decade to test and confirm.
With my guidance, it can be done in half that time. I must finish my
work. 
B'TARDAT [on monitor]: Others started your work, others will finish it.
It's always been this way. It always will. 
RIKER [OC]: Captain, scanners indicate two Kaelon warships rising on an
intercept course. 
PICARD: Acknowledged, Commander. Minister, we're here in friendship,
hoping to provide assistance. 
B'TARDAT [on monitor]: You have helped quite enough, Captain. I suggest
you return Timicin and depart. If you attempt to leave orbit with
Timicin on board, our ships have been ordered to open fire. 
TIMICIN: B'tardat, there's no purpose at all in letting this become 
(transmission ends) 
TIMICIN: It shouldn't have happened. I've handled this poorly. 
PICARD: You acted in good conscience, Doctor. I don't see what else you
could have done. 
TIMICIN: I could have let well enough alone. I could have returned
home. What do you think, Captain? Have I done the right thing? 
PICARD: I'm afraid you're the only one who can answer that. 
TIMICIN: Lwaxana would have me lead a revolt. I'm only a scientist. I
wish I had her strength. She is a woman of extraordinary conviction,
isn't she? 
PICARD: Isn't she.

[Bridge]

PICARD: Any communication, Number One? 
RIKER: No, sir. We have an open channel. 
WORF: The warships are taking a standard attack posture. Staggered
approach vectors, within weapons range. 
PICARD: Shields up. Red alert. 
TIMICIN: Captain. 
PICARD: Doctor, I suggest that you return to your quarters. 
TIMICIN: I don't want there to be any bloodshed because of my decision.

CRUSHER: They will be doing everything they can to avoid it. I think we
should get out of their way now. 
TIMICIN: Yes. Yes, of course. I understand. 
PICARD: Mister Worf, ascertain their offensive potential. 
WORF: Aye, sir. 
[Engineering]

TIMICIN: We must transmit the new analysis of the
neutron migration immediately. If I can make them see the direction
I've taken 
LAFORGE: We've already tried. 
DATA: They refuse to accept further reports from you, Doctor. 
TIMICIN: They have to accept them. If I can re-establish computer
interface with the science ministry. 
LAFORGE: They've disengaged the link-up, Doctor. 
TIMICIN: Why don't they answer? Even if I find the solution, you will
not accept it! Because I do not terminate my
life, they terminate my work. Alive, I am a greater threat to my world
than a dying sun.

[Corridor]

LWAXANA: But Jean-Luc will find a way to settle
this. He always does. 
TIMICIN: No, my decision will only lead to more distrust of other
worlds. Nothing will change. 
LWAXANA: Now don't be foolish. 
TIMICIN: I am not being foolish! Lwaxana, I want to live because I see
in you how much I have to live for. You make me realise that my life
still has value. I can be an example to my people. I can finish my
work. But discovering these new desires and not being able to do
anything about them, not being able to finish my work, not being able
to reach my people. 
LWAXANA: You have made a statement about the sanctity of life, and it
will be heard, Timicin. 
TIMICIN: Who will hear it from light years away? Where will I go now,
Lwaxana? I'm a man without a world. I can't go home. 
LWAXANA: Timicin. 
RIKER [OC]: Bridge to Doctor Timicin. You have a visitor coming aboard.

TIMICIN: B'Tardat?

[Bridge]

RIKER: No, sir. It's your daughter.

[Timicin's quarters]

TIMICIN: Dara. 
(everyone say hi to Michelle Forbes) 
DARA: Father. 
TIMICIN: This is Lwaxana Troi. She has been a host and a friend. 
LWAXANA: I've been looking forward to meeting you, Dara. 
TIMICIN: Whatever you have to say to me, can be said in front of her. 
DARA: I see. Father, come home. This is wrong. 
TIMICIN: Dara, if I could show you the work I have begun. There's still
so much for me to do. 
DARA: There's nothing for me to look at. It is irrelevant. 
LWAXANA: Your father's work may save your world, my dear. I would
hardly consider that irrelevant. 
DARA: All I'm concerned with now is you, not your work. Your work is
over. It is your time to rest. 
LWAXANA: Perhaps you will feel differently as you get a little older,
say approaching sixty. 
DARA: My father taught me to cherish The Resolution. I don't know how
you have poisoned him to reject it. 
LWAXANA: It's an obscene ritual. 
DARA: How dare you. How dare you criticize my way of life, my beliefs. 
TIMICIN: Please. Please, Dara. Please. 
DARA: Where will you go? 
TIMICIN: I don't know. 
DARA: And where will you die? I cannot bear the thought of you being
laid to rest on some other world. That you will not lie beside my
mother. That I will not be able to lie beside you when my Resolution
comes. I'm sorry. I don't know how you can go on with your life knowing
that each day you live is an insult to everything we believe in.
Father, I love you. But I am ashamed. 
(Dara leaves) 
TIMICIN: I would like to be alone now, please.

[Lwaxana's quarters]

LWAXANA: I am suddenly suddenly not sure of myself.
It's a feeling I'm not at all used to. I don't think I like it very
much, little one. 
TROI: Not sure of yourself? 
LWAXANA: My life has been full. Now and then, perhaps it's overflowed a
little, but I enjoy living. And now I am asking myself is it possible I
was wrong to encourage Timicin to choose life? 
TROI: You were honest with him, Mother. You had to be. 
LWAXANA: Maybe I want him to live just to keep me company. 
TROI: Of course you do. But you didn't do this for yourself, you did it
for him. 
LWAXANA: Did I? Then look what I've done to him. He's like a man who's
lost his faith. I never considered how deeply ingrained this Resolution
liturgy is. 
TROI: Ritual provides a structure in society, good rituals and bad
rituals alike. 
LWAXANA: Well, this is a bad one. 
TROI: Your point of view. 
LWAXANA: It should be the point of view of any reasonably intelligent
middle-aged person. Unfortunately, it is not. 
(doorbell. Troi answers it and Timicin enters) 
TROI: I'll see you later, Mother. Excuse me. 
TIMICIN: Thank you. 
(Troi leaves) 
LWAXANA: You're going back. 
TIMICIN: Do you believe I love you? I do, you know. But finally, if
that is my only reason to stay alive. 
LWAXANA: It's not enough. 
TIMICIN: Almost. Almost but not quite. I can't be that selfish,
Lwaxana. I am not the person to lead the revolt.

