TROI WORF PICARD RIKER TIMICIN LWAXANA DATA
life used develop ve presence work madame want proved

[Observation lounge]

TIMICIN: Of course, the basic theories of helium
fusion enhancement have been discussed for over a century, but there's
been no practical method of application until now. 
DATA: The modifications that you have made to the torpedo's guidance
systems are remarkable, Doctor. 
TIMICIN: Well, we'll see. They still have to be proved. But now at
least it's possible. I'd never dared hope for such a perfect match with
our own sun. 
PICARD: My only regret is that it took us three years to find a
suitable sun after you had first contacted us. 
TIMICIN: We're not used to dealing with other worlds. We're not used to
asking for anything from others. Your offer of help has given us a
possible means of survival. It has taken forty years of my life to
develop the programming that will control your photon torpedoes. It has
been my life. Thank you for this opportunity. My only wish has been to
find a way to revive our sun before I die.

[Bridge]

WORF: Mrs Troi, I must protest your unauthorised
presence on the Bridge. 
LWAXANA: What does that little one do, Mister Woof? 
WORF: Please, Madame! That is a torpedo launch initiator, and, it is
Worf, Madame, not Woof. 
(Deanna, Riker and Timicin enter) 
LWAXANA: Oh. Ah, there you are, dear. Where've you been? I've been
waiting for you. 
(Lwaxana walks straight past Deanna to Timicin) 
LWAXANA: So nice to see you again so soon. 
TIMICIN: Mrs Troi. 
TROI: Mother, what did you want? 
LWAXANA: What? 
TROI: You were waiting for me. 
LWAXANA: Oh yes, dear, of course I was. You really must let me do
something to relieve the tedium of all this work, work, work. 
TIMICIN: I'm afraid I'm expected in Engineering. I'm really terribly
sorry. 
RIKER: Mrs Troi, I have to ask you to clear the Bridge, please. 
LWAXANA: I don't see why. There are lots of other people here. 
TROI: Mother. Please. 
LWAXANA: Well, don't you worry. We'll just have our little chat later. 
(Lwaxana leaves) 
TIMICIN: I'd never have thought her old enough to be your mother. She
is so vibrant.

