TIMICIN PICARD DATA LAFORGE LWAXANA
certainly used brien course wish life application transporter suitable

[Transporter room]

PICARD: Mister O'Brien, energise. 
(Charles Emerson Winchester III beams in, having escaped from the 4077
MASH) 
PICARD: Doctor Timicin. I'm Jean-Luc Picard, Captain of The Enterprise.
This is Lieutenant Commander La Forge. 
TIMICIN: I beg your pardon, Captain. This is my first time aboard a
Federation starship. Oh yes, they told me. Shaking hands, a form of
greeting. 
PICARD: I beg your pardon. Doctor Timicin, allow me to present Lwaxana
Troi of Betazed. She's also a guest on board, and 
LWAXANA: And Daughter of The Fifth House, Holder of the Sacred Chalice
of Rixx, Heir of the Holy Rings of Betazed, and what are you doing for
dinner? 
TIMICIN: Well, I don't know, really. 
PICARD: Lwaxana, we have quite a bit of work planned. 
LWAXANA: The man's never been on board a starship before, Jean-Luc.
Certainly somebody ought to make him comfortable before you get
started. 
PICARD: It seems that Mrs Troi is our acting ambassador of goodwill for
today. 
LWAXANA: You just think of me as your Entertainment Director. 
(Picard, Lwaxana and Timicin leave) 
LAFORGE: That man is in a lot of trouble.

Captain's Log. Stardate 44805.7. For generations,
the people of Kaelon Two have been working to revitalise their dying
sun. The Federation has offered to assist in testing what may be a
solution to this problem.

[Observation lounge]

TIMICIN: Of course, the basic theories of helium
fusion enhancement have been discussed for over a century, but there's
been no practical method of application until now. 
DATA: The modifications that you have made to the torpedo's guidance
systems are remarkable, Doctor. 
TIMICIN: Well, we'll see. They still have to be proved. But now at
least it's possible. I'd never dared hope for such a perfect match with
our own sun. 
PICARD: My only regret is that it took us three years to find a
suitable sun after you had first contacted us. 
TIMICIN: We're not used to dealing with other worlds. We're not used to
asking for anything from others. Your offer of help has given us a
possible means of survival. It has taken forty years of my life to
develop the programming that will control your photon torpedoes. It has
been my life. Thank you for this opportunity. My only wish has been to
find a way to revive our sun before I die.

