TROI WORF PICARD KALIN RIKER LATHAL CRUSHER LEKA

[Ten Forward]

TROI: May I join you? 
CRUSHER: You know, Deanna, the first man I ever loved unconditionally
was named Stefan. He was a soccer player, and I would watch him as he
would race down the field and I thought my heart would stop because he
was so beautiful. We married and had three children. Twin boys, Andrew
and Alexander, and then later a little girl, Jennifer. Stefan became an
artist, very famous. He created huge, breathtaking, metal sculptures.
He came to adore me as much as I worshipped him. In my daydreams at
least. Stefan was eleven and I was eight. He never even knew I existed.
Oh, Deanna, I loved Odan. I'm sure of it. I had no doubts, no fears,
but what it was I loved? His eyes? His hands? His mouth? They're gone.
If that was all it was, I should mourn him and go on. But it was more
than that. I felt completely free with him. Unguarded. At ease with
myself. There were so many things that made him special to me. Where
are they? Are they still here, alive in Will Riker? I look at Will and
I see someone I've known for years. A kind of brother. But inside, is
he really Odan? Help me, please. 
TROI: What do your feelings tell you? 
CRUSHER: I feel his pull. It's very powerful. I wish he'd never come on
this ship. 
TROI: Don't wish that, Beverly. You can't be open to love if you don't
risk pain. 
CRUSHER: I don't care. I'd give anything not to feel the way I do now.
He's here, isn't he? 
TROI: Look at him. 
CRUSHER: I don't want to look at him. Talk to me. Just keep talking to
me. 
TROI: The first man I ever loved was my father. He was strong and tall.
He carried me when the ground was muddy. He chased away the monsters
that hid under my bed at night. And he sang to me, and kept me safe.
And he went away. What I wouldn't give to hear those songs again. To
feel his arms protect me. I never will, but I can still feel his warmth
and his love as though he were here with me. If you can feel those
things from the man we know as Will Riker, accept them. Accept the
love.

Captain's log, stardate 44823.8. Representatives of
the two moons of Peliar Zel have agreed to come on board to meet the
new Ambassador Odan. 
[Observation lounge]

CRUSHER: White count is elevated. It's getting
higher and higher every time I read it. Are you in pain? 
RIKER: Not much. 
PICARD: Ambassador, we can stall the representatives. 
RIKER: They would see that as deception. I must meet with them. 
PICARD: But surely, to present yourself in this condition is not going
to help our cause. 
RIKER: I promise you, Captain, they will never know that I am ill. 
WORF: Captain, the emissaries. 
LEKA: May I present Kalin Trose of Alpha Moon, and Lathal Bine of Beta
Moon. 
KALIN: Thank you for receiving us, Captain. 
LATHAL: Is this Ambassador Odan? 
RIKER: Lathal Bine. It was your aunt who represented Beta thirty years
ago. 
LATHAL: That is correct. 
RIKER: She was a formidable woman. I had the utmost respect for her. 
KALIN: And who was it who spoke for Alpha so long ago? 
RIKER: That was you, of course, Kalin Trose. Then you were a young man,
bristling with passion and zeal, yet wise enough to understand that
your people needed peace to ensure their future. 
KALIN: And how did you manage to achieve a compromise between that
young man and the iron willed woman of Beta Moon? 
RIKER: They agreed to trade places for a week, to understand each
other's situation with more informed eyes. After that an agreement came
swiftly. 
KALIN: Nothing that you have said is beyond what a school child could
learn in a history book. 
RIKER: What is not commonly known that during those negotiations, you,
Kalin Trose, quelled a plot by a radical from your moon who was
attempting to assassinate the Beta delegate. 
KALIN: It is true. 
LATHAL: Perhaps he was wiser in his youth than he is now. Odan, you
must convince him to stop. 
RIKER: Will you accept me? Will you allow me to work with you? 
LATHAL: Yes. 
RIKER: And Alpha moon? 
KALIN: I will consider it, but I must consult others. 
LATHAL: This is a typical tactic. He is an obstructionist. You can see
that. 
RIKER: Kalin Trose, you may confer with your people, but we must have
your answer within eight hours. 
KALIN: You shall have it. 
[Sickbay]

CRUSHER: His vital functions are overworked. His
immune system is under attack. I can only guess that he's suffering
from classic rejection syndrome. 
PICARD: Is there any treatment you can give him? 
CRUSHER: I can administer an immunosuppressant. That could help relieve
the symptoms but it Can't correct the underlying cause. There is a
foreign organism in his body. Medical school didn't exactly prepare me
for situations like this. 
PICARD: You're doing all you can. 
CRUSHER: Don't worry about me, Captain. I'm fine. 
PICARD: Ambassador, when you feel up to it, would you join me in my
Ready room? 
RIKER: Of course. 
(Picard leaves) 
CRUSHER: I'm giving you something that should help with the pain. At
least for a little while. 
RIKER: The pain's gone. Thank you. 
(he takes her arm) 
CRUSHER: Please don't. 
RIKER: Please let me touch you, just for a moment. 
(he leans in for a kiss) 
CRUSHER: No. Please.

[Ready room]

PICARD: It was a fast decision, which we must take
as positive. The Alphan representative has agreed, however reluctantly.
to let you mediate the dispute. 
RIKER: I knew they would. They are reasonable people, they're just
trapped in their own anger. 
PICARD: I have no doubt, however, that they will bolt if something goes
wrong in the discussion. 
RIKER: Then it's my job to see nothing goes wrong. Did I said something
wrong, Captain Picard? 
PICARD: No, it's just that for a moment you sounded more like Will
Riker. We have received information that the new host will arrive in
eighteen hours. Will you be all right until then? 
RIKER: The medication Doctor Beverly gave me has helped. I will find a
way to keep going. 
[Crusher's quarters]

CRUSHER: Lemon tea.

