TROI WOMAN ODAN PICARD TAGGART CRUSHER DATA LEKA

[Observation lounge]

PICARD: If the news were encouraging, I assume you
would not be here. 
LEKA: I'm afraid you're correct, Captain. The situation's growing
progressively worse. 
(Crusher enters) 
TROI: Where've you been? 
CRUSHER: With a patient. Minor emergency. 
(Odan enters through another door) 
PICARD: Ambassador Odan, this is Governor Leka Trion of Peliar Zel. 
LEKA: Ambassador. thank you for coming. I knew your father. His efforts
helped keep our people at peace for several generations. 
ODAN: I would hope to serve you as well as he. 
PICARD: Governor. Ambassador. 
(all sit) 
DATA: I hope Doctor Crusher was able to help you with your headache. 
ODAN: Thank you. Actually, she was. 
PICARD: Governor Leka has intercepted us before we reach her planet in
order to update us on the situation. 
LEKA: The people on our moons have been in discord ever since they
migrated from our planet five centuries ago. To us on the planet
They're like two squabbling children. We try to help settle their
arguments by not taking sides, but this time we are at a loss. 
ODAN: I've been studying the information you sent. If I understand
correctly, the people of Alpha moon have found a way to tap directly
into the magnetic field of your planet, and now rely exclusively on
that energy source. 
LEKA: Yes, but the Beta moon is now suffering some environmental damage
as a result. 
(the monitor shows the Beta moon's orbit is inside that of Alpha) 
DATA: My design models suggest that Beta will eventually experience
rising temperatures, erratic tide surges and in general the beginnings
of global warming. 
CRUSHER: The impact on the health of the Betan people is clear. There
will be profound medical repercussions. 
LEKA: Alpha is unwilling to give up its new-found energy source. Beta
accuses them of intentionally courting genocide. Our efforts to reach a
compromise have failed. And now, we have received intelligence that
both sides are arming for war. If that happens the people of my planet
will begin to take sides, and the outcome can only be disastrous. 
PICARD: We will be in orbit around Peliar Zel within six hours. If you
could arrange for the representatives of Alpha and Beta to be there,
then Ambassador Odan could beam directly down to the planet. 
ODAN: Excuse me, Captain. I prefer to shuttle to the surface. 
LEKA: I would not recommend it. There are many radical factions
involved in this dispute. It would be difficult to guarantee your
safety. 
ODAN: I'm sure I'm not the first who has expressed discomfort at the
idea of molecular transport. Thank you, but I prefer to remain intact.
I'll shuttle down. 
PICARD: As you wish. 
(all leave except Picard and Troi) 
PICARD: Counsellor, what is it? 
TROI: It's Ambassador Odan. I continually feel fluctuations of emotion
from him. 
PICARD: Perhaps it's perfectly normal among the Trill. 
TROI: It could be. We know so very little about them. 
PICARD: Yes. Quite.

[Beauty parlour]

(Beverly is getting her toenails coloured, while
soaking her hands in green gunk and with a padded eye-shade on) 
WOMAN: Hi, Deanna. 
TROI: Hi. Is that the colgonite astringent you have on your eyes? 
CRUSHER: Yes. I guess so. 
TROI: I've never tried it. 
CRUSHER: Someone just put it on me. 
TROI: I didn't know you even came in here. 
CRUSHER: I don't. At least, not very often. 
TROI: But it feels good to indulge yourself sometimes. 
CRUSHER: I guess so. 
TROI: Especially when you haven't done so in a while. 
CRUSHER: What is that supposed to mean? 
TROI: Beverly, you're in love. 
CRUSHER: Sometimes I wish you weren't so empathic 
TROI: I don't really think it's really a secret. 
CRUSHER: It isn't? 
TROI: You've been glowing. 
CRUSHER: Oh. Must be the astringent. What? 
TROI: Nothing. 
CRUSHER: Oh, yes, there is. What is it? 
TROI: It's just something I sense in Odan. 
CRUSHER: What? What do you sense? 
TROI: It's just, how well do you really know him? 
CRUSHER: I feel I know him better than I've known anyone in my life. Am
I being foolish? I don't think so. And yet, I've only known him for a
couple of weeks. Of course, that could be infatuation, but I am a grown
up and I know the difference between love and infatuation. All I know
is, I haven't felt this way for a long time. 
TROI: And you like it. 
CRUSHER: I like it.

[Ready room]

PICARD: Come. 
ODAN: You wanted to see me, Captain? 
PICARD: Yes, Ambassador. Please, sit down. We have entered orbit. We
shall be transporting you to the planet in a few minutes. 
ODAN: I am ready, Captain. 
PICARD: How will you proceed when you're there? 
ODAN: Oh, I cannot answer that. I never know until I am into the
situation, meet the people involved. I work very much by instinct, not
by pre-arranged plan. 
PICARD: It seems to work well for you. 
ODAN: Well, I do like to go into a situation as well-informed as
possible, and I must say that your staff has been quite helpful in
briefing me on the problems down here. Particularly Doctor Crusher. 
PICARD: My staff is quite capable. I'm glad they've been useful. 
ODAN: Your Doctor Beverly is an extraordinary person, both as a
scientist and as a woman. 
PICARD: Yes, I'm sure that's true. Well, shall we make our way to the
shuttlebay? 
ODAN: Captain, you know her better than I. Do you have any idea how
committed she is to remaining with Starfleet? 
PICARD: I wouldn't presume to speak for her. 
ODAN: Oh no, of course not. I just thought, well, you've known her so
much long than I. 
TAGGART [OC]: Ensign Taggart to Captain Picard. 
PICARD: Yes, Ensign. 
TAGGART [OC]: The shuttle is ready to transport the Ambassador. 
PICARD: Very well. 
ODAN: I'll find my own way, Captain. I hope to return with good news.

