TROI WORF PICARD KALIN RIKER LEKA LATHAL LEKA [on viewscreen] CRUSHER [OC] NURSE CRUSHER OGAWA
temperature headed maybe stefan levelling talking single hid higher

[Sickbay]

CRUSHER: I've given you a local anaesthetic. You
must be conscious during the implantation. Drugs might damage the
symbiont. 
RIKER: I understand. 
CRUSHER: Laser scalpel. 
(She cuts up from his navel, then gets the creature from it's jar and
places it on his belly. It finds its own way inside him) 
CRUSHER: How do you feel? Is there pain? 
RIKER: No, just some strange sensations. 
CRUSHER: Vital signs? 
OGAWA: Heart rate one hundred ten. Blood pressure ninety over forty. 
CRUSHER: I can't close yet, The assimilation's not complete. 
OGAWA: Pulse one thirty and climbing. EEG is erratic. 
CRUSHER: He's going to start fibrillating. Two hundred milligrams of
metrazene. 
NURSE: Yes, Doctor. 
CRUSHER: Hang on, Will. 
NURSE: We've got incorporation, Doctor. 
CRUSHER: I'm closing. 
NURSE: Brain waves are still irregular. 
CRUSHER: The metrazene should have stabilised him. I'll give it ten
seconds more before we go in again. 
NURSE: Here we go. EEG approaching regular. 
OGAWA: Blood pressure levelling off. 
CRUSHER: That's better. Signs are returning to normal. Will, it's
Beverly. Can you hear me? 
RIKER: Hello. 
CRUSHER: You're going to be all right. How do you feel? 
RIKER: I'm fine. You look a little tired, Doctor Beverly.

[Bridge]

RIKER: I know this must be disturbing, Governor,
but you must convince the inhabitants of the moons that I am Odan. I
have his skills, his thoughts, his memories. 
LEKA [on viewscreen]: They will perceive you as a Starfleet officer,
perhaps with your own agenda. 
RIKER: The man they knew as my father, the man who stands before them,
both are merely hosts. It is your task to help them understand. 
LEKA [on viewscreen]: I will try. I cannot promise they will listen.
They are more factionalised than ever. Listening is a skill which seems
to have evaporated with the heat of argument. 
RIKER: Speak softly, Governor. Those who cannot hear an angry shout may
strain to hear a whisper. 
LEKA [on viewscreen]: I will do what I can. 
(transmission ends) 
PICARD: Well done. Mister Worf, will you escort the Ambassador to his
quarters. 
RIKER: I'm just a little dizzy. I'll be fine. I just need to lie
down.
PICARD: Picard to Doctor Crusher. 
CRUSHER [OC]: Yes, Captain? 
PICARD: Doctor, the Ambassador is not well. Will you please attend to
him in his quarters. 
CRUSHER [OC]: Right away, sir.

[Odan's quarters]

CRUSHER: White cell count is elevated, six tenths
of a degree of temperature. But no sign of rejection. 
RIKER: That's good. 
CRUSHER: You look awfully pale. 
RIKER: Just a little weak and light-headed. 
CRUSHER: Cerebral blood flow looks normal. I'll leave you a metabolic
booster. Use it if the symptoms get worse. 
RIKER: Beverly. 
CRUSHER: Beyond that, I don't know what to do. This is all new to me. 
RIKER: It is new to me as well. Please, don't go. We've got to talk
about this. 
CRUSHER: I don't know what to say. 
RIKER: Nor do I, but I know that this silence will injure us. 
CRUSHER: Well maybe you should have thought about that sooner. Maybe
you should have told me what you were. It didn't seem to bother you to
remain silent yesterday. 
RIKER: It never occurred to me. This is what I am. Did you ever tell me
that you are only a single being? Of course not. That was normal to
you. 
CRUSHER: I don't know who you are. 
RIKER: You must understand, whoever I seem to be, I am Odan, who loved
you. That has not changed. I still love you. I can't help that. If this
causes you pain, I will suppress it, I will keep my distance. Doctor
Beverly, I would never hurt you.

[Ten Forward]

TROI: May I join you? 
CRUSHER: You know, Deanna, the first man I ever loved unconditionally
was named Stefan. He was a soccer player, and I would watch him as he
would race down the field and I thought my heart would stop because he
was so beautiful. We married and had three children. Twin boys, Andrew
and Alexander, and then later a little girl, Jennifer. Stefan became an
artist, very famous. He created huge, breathtaking, metal sculptures.
He came to adore me as much as I worshipped him. In my daydreams at
least. Stefan was eleven and I was eight. He never even knew I existed.
Oh, Deanna, I loved Odan. I'm sure of it. I had no doubts, no fears,
but what it was I loved? His eyes? His hands? His mouth? They're gone.
If that was all it was, I should mourn him and go on. But it was more
than that. I felt completely free with him. Unguarded. At ease with
myself. There were so many things that made him special to me. Where
are they? Are they still here, alive in Will Riker? I look at Will and
I see someone I've known for years. A kind of brother. But inside, is
he really Odan? Help me, please. 
TROI: What do your feelings tell you? 
CRUSHER: I feel his pull. It's very powerful. I wish he'd never come on
this ship. 
TROI: Don't wish that, Beverly. You can't be open to love if you don't
risk pain. 
CRUSHER: I don't care. I'd give anything not to feel the way I do now.
He's here, isn't he? 
TROI: Look at him. 
CRUSHER: I don't want to look at him. Talk to me. Just keep talking to
me. 
TROI: The first man I ever loved was my father. He was strong and tall.
He carried me when the ground was muddy. He chased away the monsters
that hid under my bed at night. And he sang to me, and kept me safe.
And he went away. What I wouldn't give to hear those songs again. To
feel his arms protect me. I never will, but I can still feel his warmth
and his love as though he were here with me. If you can feel those
things from the man we know as Will Riker, accept them. Accept the
love.

Captain's log, stardate 44823.8. Representatives of
the two moons of Peliar Zel have agreed to come on board to meet the
new Ambassador Odan. 
[Observation lounge]

CRUSHER: White count is elevated. It's getting
higher and higher every time I read it. Are you in pain? 
RIKER: Not much. 
PICARD: Ambassador, we can stall the representatives. 
RIKER: They would see that as deception. I must meet with them. 
PICARD: But surely, to present yourself in this condition is not going
to help our cause. 
RIKER: I promise you, Captain, they will never know that I am ill. 
WORF: Captain, the emissaries. 
LEKA: May I present Kalin Trose of Alpha Moon, and Lathal Bine of Beta
Moon. 
KALIN: Thank you for receiving us, Captain. 
LATHAL: Is this Ambassador Odan? 
RIKER: Lathal Bine. It was your aunt who represented Beta thirty years
ago. 
LATHAL: That is correct. 
RIKER: She was a formidable woman. I had the utmost respect for her. 
KALIN: And who was it who spoke for Alpha so long ago? 
RIKER: That was you, of course, Kalin Trose. Then you were a young man,
bristling with passion and zeal, yet wise enough to understand that
your people needed peace to ensure their future. 
KALIN: And how did you manage to achieve a compromise between that
young man and the iron willed woman of Beta Moon? 
RIKER: They agreed to trade places for a week, to understand each
other's situation with more informed eyes. After that an agreement came
swiftly. 
KALIN: Nothing that you have said is beyond what a school child could
learn in a history book. 
RIKER: What is not commonly known that during those negotiations, you,
Kalin Trose, quelled a plot by a radical from your moon who was
attempting to assassinate the Beta delegate. 
KALIN: It is true. 
LATHAL: Perhaps he was wiser in his youth than he is now. Odan, you
must convince him to stop. 
RIKER: Will you accept me? Will you allow me to work with you? 
LATHAL: Yes. 
RIKER: And Alpha moon? 
KALIN: I will consider it, but I must consult others. 
LATHAL: This is a typical tactic. He is an obstructionist. You can see
that. 
RIKER: Kalin Trose, you may confer with your people, but we must have
your answer within eight hours. 
KALIN: You shall have it. 
