TROI ODAN PICARD CRUSHER DATA LEKA

[Ready room]

ODAN [OC]: Yes, Captain? This is Odan. 
PICARD: The Federation representative from Peliar Zel has come on
board. Would you care to meet us in the Observation Lounge? 
[Odan's quarters]

ODAN: I'll be right there, Captain.

[Observation lounge]

PICARD: If the news were encouraging, I assume you
would not be here. 
LEKA: I'm afraid you're correct, Captain. The situation's growing
progressively worse. 
(Crusher enters) 
TROI: Where've you been? 
CRUSHER: With a patient. Minor emergency. 
(Odan enters through another door) 
PICARD: Ambassador Odan, this is Governor Leka Trion of Peliar Zel. 
LEKA: Ambassador. thank you for coming. I knew your father. His efforts
helped keep our people at peace for several generations. 
ODAN: I would hope to serve you as well as he. 
PICARD: Governor. Ambassador. 
(all sit) 
DATA: I hope Doctor Crusher was able to help you with your headache. 
ODAN: Thank you. Actually, she was. 
PICARD: Governor Leka has intercepted us before we reach her planet in
order to update us on the situation. 
LEKA: The people on our moons have been in discord ever since they
migrated from our planet five centuries ago. To us on the planet
They're like two squabbling children. We try to help settle their
arguments by not taking sides, but this time we are at a loss. 
ODAN: I've been studying the information you sent. If I understand
correctly, the people of Alpha moon have found a way to tap directly
into the magnetic field of your planet, and now rely exclusively on
that energy source. 
LEKA: Yes, but the Beta moon is now suffering some environmental damage
as a result. 
(the monitor shows the Beta moon's orbit is inside that of Alpha) 
DATA: My design models suggest that Beta will eventually experience
rising temperatures, erratic tide surges and in general the beginnings
of global warming. 
CRUSHER: The impact on the health of the Betan people is clear. There
will be profound medical repercussions. 
LEKA: Alpha is unwilling to give up its new-found energy source. Beta
accuses them of intentionally courting genocide. Our efforts to reach a
compromise have failed. And now, we have received intelligence that
both sides are arming for war. If that happens the people of my planet
will begin to take sides, and the outcome can only be disastrous. 
PICARD: We will be in orbit around Peliar Zel within six hours. If you
could arrange for the representatives of Alpha and Beta to be there,
then Ambassador Odan could beam directly down to the planet. 
ODAN: Excuse me, Captain. I prefer to shuttle to the surface. 
LEKA: I would not recommend it. There are many radical factions
involved in this dispute. It would be difficult to guarantee your
safety. 
ODAN: I'm sure I'm not the first who has expressed discomfort at the
idea of molecular transport. Thank you, but I prefer to remain intact.
I'll shuttle down. 
PICARD: As you wish. 
(all leave except Picard and Troi) 
PICARD: Counsellor, what is it? 
TROI: It's Ambassador Odan. I continually feel fluctuations of emotion
from him. 
PICARD: Perhaps it's perfectly normal among the Trill. 
TROI: It could be. We know so very little about them. 
PICARD: Yes. Quite.

