TROI LAFORGE VAGH KELL PICARD RIKER CREWMAN

[Corridor]

LAFORGE: The Carnelians have actually done the most
work on artificial intelligence, so I spent a lot of time in their
research seminars. 
TROI: Geordi, I get the feeling that something special happened on this
vacation, and I'm not talking about computers. 
LAFORGE: Well, I did take second place in a chess tournament. 
TROI: Yes. 
LAFORGE: And I swam a lot. I worked on my back stroke. The water is
very calm on Risa. 
TROI: And? 
LAFORGE: And I walked a lot. That's all. Well, I ate enough for twelve
people. The food there is terrific. They've got a chocolate there,
Counsellor, you would love. 
TROI: And that's all?
LAFORGE: Yeah. Well, there was this 
TROI: Yes? 
LAFORGE: Her name is Jonek. But you wouldn't want to hear about that.
Better get ready for duty. Nice talking to you, Counsellor. 
 [Governor's office]

VAGH: We talk, we socialise, we waste time and the
insurrection continues to grow. These rebels need to be crushed not
coddled. 
KELL: Governor, it does not matter what you or I think. The High
Council's made its wishes clear. 
VAGH: The Council should be more interested in Federation interference.

PICARD: Governor, exactly what do you think the Federation has done? 
VAGH: Your medical supplies have been found in rebel strongholds. 
RIKER: We make no effort to restrict access to our medical supplies. 
VAGH: Are your weapons also freely available? 
PICARD: No, they are not. 
VAGH: Then explain this. 
(Picard catches the phaser rifle that is thrown at him) 
PICARD: You took this weapon from the rebels? 
VAGH: That and many more like it. 
RIKER: It does appear to be Federation issue. 
PICARD: Governor, with your permission, I would like to take this
weapon back to the Enterprise to verify its origin. 
VAGH: As you wish. I have hundreds more. 
PICARD: Even if these weapons are genuine, I can assure you that a
third party must have been involved. The Federation is not in the
business of supplying arms to rebels. 
VAGH: This is the only Klingon colony on the border of Federation
space. You cannot deny that Starfleet would be happy to see Krios gain
its independence. It would reduce your vulnerability to an attack. 
PICARD: Governor, you speak as if we are enemies, not allies. 
VAGH: And you speak the lies of a taar'chek. 
PICARD: Qu'vath guy'cha b'aka. 
KELL: Gentlemen. 
VAGH: You swear well, Picard. You must have Klingon blood in your
veins. 
KELL: Governor, I will report to you as soon as the analysis of that
weapon is complete. Captain, Commander. 
PICARD: Enterprise, three to transport.

[Engineering]

LAFORGE: Intercooler flux down to five percent.
Plasma deviation steady at point seven two. 
CREWMAN: Aye, sir. 
LAFORGE: Well, if you guys keep running at this efficiency, I might as
well go back to Risa for another week. Just run through a level four
series, and then call it a night, huh? I'd help you, but there's
something I've got to take care of. 
