RIKER LAFORGE WORF KELL PICARD O'BRIEN DATA VAGH [on viewscreen]
blind accomplished diagnostic chief prey understand convinced replicator uncloaking

[Bridge]

(La Forge enters) 
WORF: Sir, we are being hailed by Governor Vagh. 
PICARD: On screen, Mister Worf. Governor. 
VAGH [on viewscreen]: You astonish me, Picard. Did you seriously
believe you would succeed? Do you think we are blind? 
PICARD: I don't understand. 
VAGH [on viewscreen]: We intercepted the weapons you tried to transport
to the surface. 
PICARD: Governor, I assure you 
VAGH [on viewscreen]: Do not insult us both by denying it. Maintain
your position until further notice. Do not attempt to leave orbit. 
(transmission ends) 
WORF: Klingon attack cruiser uncloaking, sir. 
PICARD: On screen. 
WORF: Two birds of prey approaching. 
(shortly after) 
DATA: Sensors confirm an unauthorised transporter beam at eleven twenty
three hours. 
PICARD: Do you know which transporter was used? 
LAFORGE: I'm not sure, Captain. Whoever did it apparently used the
planetary array to bypass the transport sensors. 
RIKER: What about the transporter logs? 
LAFORGE: They're blank. 
RIKER: How many people on board are capable of doing this, Geordi? 
LAFORGE: I'm not even sure how it was done yet. As soon as I find out,
maybe I can give you an answer. Not many, that's for sure. 
(Kell enters) 
KELL: Vagh is fully prepared to fire upon the Enterprise. I have
convinced him it would not be wise to take any action without first
consulting the High Council. 
RIKER: How long do we have? 
KELL: A few hours at most. 
PICARD: Mister La Forge, your recommendations? 
LAFORGE: It might be possible to locate the point of origin by tracing
power flows at the time of transport. 
PICARD: Make it so.

[Engineering]

DATA: The primary plasma system does not indicate a
power drain from any of the transporters. 
LAFORGE: Then whoever used the transporter must have bypassed the
primary feeds. 
DATA: Tracking power from secondary systems. No surges to any of the
transporters indicated. 
LAFORGE: Damn, who could have pulled this off? Try the life-support
power flows. 
DATA: No abnormal surges indicated. 
LAFORGE: Replicator waveguides? There. That's not a replicator energy
pattern. Trace it. 
DATA: Cargo bay four. 
LAFORGE: La Forge to Worf. Security to cargo bay four.

[Cargo bay]

O'BRIEN: I've run a level one diagnostic. As far as
I can tell, the unit hasn't been tampered with. 
LAFORGE: This has to be the transfer point. 
DATA: Perhaps the perpetrator reprogrammed the memory chips to erase
any record. 
O'BRIEN: You're talking about thirty or forty chips in half a dozen
different control systems. 
WORF: Which members of the crew could have accomplished that? 
LAFORGE: I think I could have done it, if I put my mind to it. The
Chief, Data, Lieutenant Costa, that's about it. 
WORF: Procedure requires that I ask each of you where you were at
eleven twenty three hours. 
O'BRIEN: I was with Keiko, in the Arboretum. 
DATA: I was on the Bridge at my station. 
LAFORGE: I was in my quarters. 
WORF: Was anyone with you? 
LAFORGE: No, I was alone. Costa was on duty in Engineering. I'm sure
he's got twenty witnesses. 
WORF: Then there is someone on board who isn't what he or she seems to
be. 
LAFORGE: Data, let's do a detailed scan on every chip in this assembly.
There's got to be some kind of trail we can follow.

