RIKER LAFORGE VAGH KELL PICARD DATA
bridge mistrust wave replications assumption safety systems spike test

[Engineering]

(Data and Geordi are doing test firings of the
phaser rifle) 
DATA: Energy flow is within normal parameters, from the pre-fire
chamber to the emission aperture. 
LAFORGE: Rapid nadion pulse, right on target. Beam control assembly,
safety interlock, both checked out. Beam width intensity controls also
responding correctly. 
DATA: Energy cell usage remains constant at one point oh five
megajoules per second. Curious. The efficiency reading on the discharge
crystal is well above Starfleet specifications. 
LAFORGE: Yeah, by quite a bit. Ninety four point one percent
efficiency. 
DATA: Our most efficient discharge crystal typically fires with eighty
six point five percent efficiency. 
LAFORGE: Let's take a closer look at the wave pattern on the emission
beam. That might tell us why it's losing so little energy. 
DATA: Pulse frequency out of pre-fire chamber reads steady. 
LAFORGE: There. That's not right. The initial output spike is inverted.

DATA: That might suggest that the weapon has been charged with a forced
pulse, well into the terahertz range. 
LAFORGE: Then it's definitely not Starfleet issue and there can't be
that many systems that use the terahertz feeds. 
DATA: Three hundred twenty seven, to our knowledge. We can probably
achieve an exact match with a random computer search. It will take
approximately three hours. 
LAFORGE: I think we could narrow this down with a little common sense,
Data. Who has the most to gain from a conflict between the Klingon
Empire and the Federation?

[Governor's office]

LAFORGE: The Romulans. They fashioned a perfect
Federation rifle but they had to charge it from their energy sources.
So the discharge crystal and the emission beam pattern correspond to
those you'd find in a Romulan disrupter. 
VAGH: The Romulans have no interest in Kriosian independence. The
planet is too far from their borders. 
PICARD: But they do have an interest in driving the Federation and the
Empire apart. Our alliance is the only thing that has kept them in
check. 
VAGH: Romulan replications using stolen Federation technology? 
KELL: It's a typical Romulan ploy. An attempt to sow dissension and
mistrust. Commander, you've done well. I would thank you on behalf of
the Empire. 
VAGH: I still have my doubts, Picard. I will want my own technicians to
confirm your findings. 
PICARD: Of course. My staff will give you their full cooperation. 
VAGH: You may go.

[Bridge]

(at Science One) 
RIKER: Another E-band blip? 
DATA: Yes, sir. However, the difference in intensity indicates that
this one did not originate from the same location as the first. 
RIKER: If it's changed intensity, it can't possibly be a protostar. 
DATA: That is a reasonable assumption. 
RIKER: Is there any known instance of Romulans using E-band
communications? 
DATA: Not to my knowledge, sir. 
RIKER: Can you track the source? 
DATA: We can reconfigure the primary sensor array. If we narrow their
focus to scan for E-band emissions, we might be able to calculate a
directional vector. But only if there are more occurrences. 
RIKER: Do it.

