OBRIEN LAFORGE WORF KELL PICARD COMPUTER VAGH DATA

[Shuttlebay]

DATA: Computer, I am reading anomalous variations
in the molecular structure of these memory chips. Please confirm. 
COMPUTER: Analysis confirmed. 
DATA: Probable cause? 
COMPUTER: Replication. 
DATA: Compare these variations with established Romulan replication
patterns. 
COMPUTER: The patterns are identical.

[Cargo bay]

LAFORGE: Maybe we should run a level one diagnostic
on those phase transition coils. 
O'BRIEN: Right, Commander. 
DATA [OC]: Data to La Forge.

[Shuttlebay]

DATA: Report, please. Geordi. 
[Cargo bay]

DATA [OC]: Please respond.

[Corridor]

DATA: Computer, current location of Commander La
Forge? 
COMPUTER: Cargo bay four. 
DATA: Data to Lieutenant Worf.

[Cargo bay]

DATA [OC]: Priority One. 
WORF: Go ahead.

[Corridor]

DATA: Take Commander La Forge into custody
immediately.

[Cargo bay]

WORF: Sir? 
[Corridor]

DATA: That is an order. 
[Cargo bay]

(from his vantage point up a ladder, Worf sees
Geordi slowly walking towards Picard and the Klingons) 
PICARD: DNA samples by tracing biochemical signatures, we'll be able to
determine who has been in this bay recently. 
VAGH: But how will it be possible to prove which one was responsible? 
(Worf tries to walk through the group and is held back by the Klingons)

VAGH: Q'ac ken ta'vak! 
WORF: La Forge! 
(Picard grabs Geordi's arm just as he fires the phaser. The beam goes
up to the ceiling instead. Picard disarms Geordi) 
PICARD: Mister Worf, get him out of here. 
(Worf shrugs off the Klingons, and leaves with Geordi as Data arrives) 
VAGH: Arming our enemies is not enough. Now the Federation would murder
me to achieve its aims. 
PICARD: Governor, if I could explain this I would. 
DATA: I believe I can help, Captain. I have been able to determine that
Commander La Forge was abducted by Romulans en route to Risa. It is
likely that he was somehow forced to take part in the plot to
assassinate Governor Vagh. 
KELL: I saw no evidence of Romulans. We just witnessed him acting very
much alone. 
DATA: No, sir, you did not. I do not believe the Commander is acting of
his own accord. He has been receiving E-band signals through his visor.
Signals which are carrying direct commands to his brain. I have
surmised that Commander La Forge was conditioned by Romulans, a process
referred to historically, and somewhat inaccurately, as brainwashing. 
VAGH: But to what end? Why would the Romulans want to kill me? 
PICARD: The Romulans have always wanted to destroy the alliance between
the Federation and the Klingons. If Mister La Forge had killed you,
Governor, I think you would agree, they might have succeeded. 
KELL: Who sent these signals? A cloaked Romulan ship? 
DATA: No, sir. That is not possible. The signals had to be transmitted
within close proximity to the visor. 
PICARD: Are you suggesting there was a Romulan accomplice in close
proximity to La Forge when he was receiving the signals? 
DATA: Yes, sir, I am. 
VAGH: This Romulan accomplice, who is he? 
DATA: I have narrowed the list of possibilities to two people. The only
two people who were with Commander La Forge all three times a
transmission was recorded. Captain Picard and Ambassador Kell. One of
them may be concealing an E-band transmitter. If they would agree to be
searched 
KELL: I am a Klingon. An emissary of the High Council. I will not be
submit to being searched by you or anyone else on this ship. 
VAGH: I am forced to agree, Captain. We will take the Ambassador with
us and search him ourselves. 
KELL: Captain, I believe it to be in all best interests if I remain on
board. I formally request asylum. 
PICARD: I will certainly grant you asylum, when you have been absolved
of this crime. 
VAGH: Gurt'ank te'la. 
(and the four Klingons are beamed away) 
