RIKER COMPUTER DATA O'BRIEN
spy perform negative related analysis enterprise need technicians compressed

[Bridge]

RIKER: From inside the Enterprise? You're sure? 
DATA: The first and third E-band blips were clearly generated on board
the ship. The second came from the planet surface. 
RIKER: Generated by what? 
DATA: Unknown, sir. 
RIKER: Mister Data, we have a known spy on board and now we have
unexplained signals on board. I think it's reasonable to assume that
they're related somehow, wouldn't you? 
DATA: One could speculate that the E-band is being used for some form
of covert communication. 
RIKER: We need more than speculation, Mister Data. We need to know who,
what, where, when and why, or we may be going to war. 
DATA: Yes, sir. Computer, run an analysis of all known Romulan
transmission formats, all bands, Identify any commonalities with
displayed waveform. 
COMPUTER: No commonalities noted. 
DATA: Does this waveform match that of any known communication format? 
COMPUTER: Negative. 
DATA: Broaden search pattern beyond communications. Does the waveform
displayed conform to any natural phenomena, cryptographic formats or
lifeform EM emissions? 
COMPUTER: The signal corresponds to a delta compressed wavelength
spectrum similar to human neural frequencies. 
DATA: As in a human brainwave pattern? 
COMPUTER: Affirmative. 
DATA: What kind of receiver would be capable of processing these
signals? 
COMPUTER: A system designed to modify the electromagnetic spectrum and
carry those messages directly to the human brain.

[Shuttlebay]

(Data goes to the Geordi's shuttle) 
DATA: Computer, link with the shuttle's onboard system. Access the
isolinear storage assembly. Scan all chips which contain mission logs.
Note any discrepancies. 
COMPUTER: No discrepancies noted. 
DATA: Perform a level 5 diagnostic on the shuttle's power and
navigational systems. 
COMPUTER: The components specified are all within normal tolerances.

[Cargo bay]

O'BRIEN: My technicians have examined all of the
ship's transporters, sir. I can assure you, this is the only unit that
has been tampered with. 
