WOMAN LAFORGE TAIBAK

[Romulan ship]

(The Romulans have the little shuttle in a tractor
beam. Geordi is dragged into a room and strapped into a chair) 
LAFORGE: Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey, take it easy! (his head is fastened) Hey. 
TAIBAK: Welcome, Mister La Forge. We've waited a long time to meet you.

LAFORGE: I can tell you've gone to a lot of trouble. 
TAIBAK: Indeed we have. You are going to be of great help to us. 
LAFORGE: I wouldn't count on it. 
(a Geordi look-alike comes in) 
TAIBAK: Good. Very good. Do not enjoy
yourself too much on Risa. 
(the look-alike leaves. Geordi's visor is removed) 
LAFORGE: Hey! 
TAIBAK: Your visor will be returned to you, but first I want to show
you something. 
LAFORGE: Show me something? That'll be an interesting trick seeing as
how I can't see anything without the visor. 
(metal arms are swung around to the sides of his head) 
TAIBAK: That is not quite true. Allow me to demonstrate. I now have
direct access to his visual cortex. He has no choice
but to see what I wish him to see. I can feed him any image I choose.
He will be unable to ignore it. His galvanic skin response has
increased nine percent. It seems Commander La Forge, like many humans,
has a low tolerance for watching others suffer. 
LAFORGE: Why are you doing this? 
TAIBAK: I am sorry, Commander. It is a necessary step. I apologize for
your discomfort. 
(Taibak speaks to a figure which remains in the shadows throughout) 
TAIBAK: Here. Observe how a spring day on his native Earth affects him.
He's looking at a beautiful meadow, green trees, birds, a blue sky. The
heartbeat slows, the galvanic skin response drops. The body responds to
our stimuli. He is incapable of maintaining control of his own
responses. Watch as I change the stimuli again. Once our work is done,
La Forge will act normally, totally unaware of his conditioning. The
perfect tool for our purpose. 
WOMAN: Will there be any physical evidence of what you are doing to
him? 
(hmm that voice sounds familiar) 
TAIBAK: None, Commander. That is why we chose La Forge. The utilisation
of his pre-existing neural implants makes our work impossible to
detect. 
WOMAN: How will we be certain the procedure has been successful? 
TAIBAK: I will programme him to perform a series of specific tests,
both before he leaves us and after he returns to the Enterprise. We'll
be able to verify his effectiveness. Notice that his heart rate has
slowed somewhat. He is becoming accustomed to the horrors he is
witnessing. So, we change horrors. 
(Geordi screams)

