RIKER OBRIEN LAFORGE WORF KELL PICARD DATA

[Engineering]

DATA: The primary plasma system does not indicate a
power drain from any of the transporters. 
LAFORGE: Then whoever used the transporter must have bypassed the
primary feeds. 
DATA: Tracking power from secondary systems. No surges to any of the
transporters indicated. 
LAFORGE: Damn, who could have pulled this off? Try the life-support
power flows. 
DATA: No abnormal surges indicated. 
LAFORGE: Replicator waveguides? There. That's not a replicator energy
pattern. Trace it. 
DATA: Cargo bay four. 
LAFORGE: La Forge to Worf. Security to cargo bay four.

[Cargo bay]

O'BRIEN: I've run a level one diagnostic. As far as
I can tell, the unit hasn't been tampered with. 
LAFORGE: This has to be the transfer point. 
DATA: Perhaps the perpetrator reprogrammed the memory chips to erase
any record. 
O'BRIEN: You're talking about thirty or forty chips in half a dozen
different control systems. 
WORF: Which members of the crew could have accomplished that? 
LAFORGE: I think I could have done it, if I put my mind to it. The
Chief, Data, Lieutenant Costa, that's about it. 
WORF: Procedure requires that I ask each of you where you were at
eleven twenty three hours. 
O'BRIEN: I was with Keiko, in the Arboretum. 
DATA: I was on the Bridge at my station. 
LAFORGE: I was in my quarters. 
WORF: Was anyone with you? 
LAFORGE: No, I was alone. Costa was on duty in Engineering. I'm sure
he's got twenty witnesses. 
WORF: Then there is someone on board who isn't what he or she seems to
be. 
LAFORGE: Data, let's do a detailed scan on every chip in this assembly.
There's got to be some kind of trail we can follow.

[Ready room]

PICARD: The isolinear chips were definitely
altered? 
LAFORGE: Programmed to erase all operator commands once the transfer
was complete. 
KELL: But with the chips erased, what evidence remained? 
DATA: The erasures were complete. However, an analysis of the subatomic
structure revealed an almost undetectable residual
pattern. In time, we may be able to reconstruct the perpetrator's
authorisation code. 
KELL: Do you have any idea who's responsible? 
LAFORGE: No, sir. Everyone with the necessary skills also has an alibi,
except for me, that is. I was alone in my quarters at the time. 
KELL: Then whoever did this must have been specially trained for the
task. 
PICARD: Our forensic team is trying to identify anyone who might have
been in cargo bay four today. 
LAFORGE: It's not going to be easy. There were a lot of people in and
out of there. 
RIKER [OC]: Riker to Data. 
DATA: Yes, Commander. 
RIKER [OC]: Sensors have picked up another E-band emission. 
DATA: Acknowledged, I will be there shortly. 
KELL: E-band emission? 
DATA: We have been picking up a curious intermittent blip. Commander
Riker has speculated that it may be a Romulan transmission. I am
attempting to track its source. 
PICARD: Proceed. Thank you, Mister La Forge. 
(Geordi and Data leave) 
KELL: We do not have much time, Picard. Vagh is not known for his
patience. 
PICARD: Assure him that we are doing everything possible. And, advise
him that if necessary I will defend my ship. 
KELL: With your permission, I will transport down to the planet. 
PICARD: Of course. 
KELL: May I suggest that you issue an invitation to Vagh, to personally
witness your continuing investigation. 
PICARD: Do you think he will come? 
KELL: I will do everything in my power to see that he does. Qapla',
Picard. 
PICARD: Qapla', Ambassador.

