RIKER LAFORGE VAGH KELL PICARD COMPUTER DATA
box bridge knowledge able erased instance emissions affirmative replicator

[Governor's office]

LAFORGE: The Romulans. They fashioned a perfect
Federation rifle but they had to charge it from their energy sources.
So the discharge crystal and the emission beam pattern correspond to
those you'd find in a Romulan disrupter. 
VAGH: The Romulans have no interest in Kriosian independence. The
planet is too far from their borders. 
PICARD: But they do have an interest in driving the Federation and the
Empire apart. Our alliance is the only thing that has kept them in
check. 
VAGH: Romulan replications using stolen Federation technology? 
KELL: It's a typical Romulan ploy. An attempt to sow dissension and
mistrust. Commander, you've done well. I would thank you on behalf of
the Empire. 
VAGH: I still have my doubts, Picard. I will want my own technicians to
confirm your findings. 
PICARD: Of course. My staff will give you their full cooperation. 
VAGH: You may go.

[Bridge]

(at Science One) 
RIKER: Another E-band blip? 
DATA: Yes, sir. However, the difference in intensity indicates that
this one did not originate from the same location as the first. 
RIKER: If it's changed intensity, it can't possibly be a protostar. 
DATA: That is a reasonable assumption. 
RIKER: Is there any known instance of Romulans using E-band
communications? 
DATA: Not to my knowledge, sir. 
RIKER: Can you track the source? 
DATA: We can reconfigure the primary sensor array. If we narrow their
focus to scan for E-band emissions, we might be able to calculate a
directional vector. But only if there are more occurrences. 
RIKER: Do it.

[Cargo bay]

LAFORGE: Computer re-route the power flow in the
cargo bay four transporter to the auxiliary replicator system. 
COMPUTER: Please verify command with necessary protocol. 
LAFORGE: Initiate protocol three six four dash B. 
COMPUTER: Verify priority clearance. 
LAFORGE: Recognise La Forge, theta two nine nine seven. 
COMPUTER: Acknowledged. Power has been re-routed through auxiliary
power distribution system code number four four seven six two. 
LAFORGE: Now, redirect transporter mode to the planetary sensor array. 
COMPUTER: Transporter mode has been redirected. 
(a box is beamed away) 
LAFORGE: Verify that all record of these modifications are being erased
from each directory. 
COMPUTER: Affirmative. Erasure process is proceeding.

