O'BRIEN [OC] LAFORGE KELL PICARD RIKER [OC] DATA
use brien doing defend able governor lot sorry having

[Ready room]

PICARD: The isolinear chips were definitely
altered? 
LAFORGE: Programmed to erase all operator commands once the transfer
was complete. 
KELL: But with the chips erased, what evidence remained? 
DATA: The erasures were complete. However, an analysis of the subatomic
structure revealed an almost undetectable residual
pattern. In time, we may be able to reconstruct the perpetrator's
authorisation code. 
KELL: Do you have any idea who's responsible? 
LAFORGE: No, sir. Everyone with the necessary skills also has an alibi,
except for me, that is. I was alone in my quarters at the time. 
KELL: Then whoever did this must have been specially trained for the
task. 
PICARD: Our forensic team is trying to identify anyone who might have
been in cargo bay four today. 
LAFORGE: It's not going to be easy. There were a lot of people in and
out of there. 
RIKER [OC]: Riker to Data. 
DATA: Yes, Commander. 
RIKER [OC]: Sensors have picked up another E-band emission. 
DATA: Acknowledged, I will be there shortly. 
KELL: E-band emission? 
DATA: We have been picking up a curious intermittent blip. Commander
Riker has speculated that it may be a Romulan transmission. I am
attempting to track its source. 
PICARD: Proceed. Thank you, Mister La Forge. 
(Geordi and Data leave) 
KELL: We do not have much time, Picard. Vagh is not known for his
patience. 
PICARD: Assure him that we are doing everything possible. And, advise
him that if necessary I will defend my ship. 
KELL: With your permission, I will transport down to the planet. 
PICARD: Of course. 
KELL: May I suggest that you issue an invitation to Vagh, to personally
witness your continuing investigation. 
PICARD: Do you think he will come? 
KELL: I will do everything in my power to see that he does. Qapla',
Picard. 
PICARD: Qapla', Ambassador.

[Kell's quarters]

(Kell is having dinner when the doorbell rings) 
KELL: Come in, Mister La Forge. 
(Geordi enters) 
KELL: The investigation is moving faster than we expected. You are in
danger of being exposed. I will transport to the surface. When I
return, I'll have Governor Vagh with me. Your Captain and I will bring
him to the cargo bay. I want you to kill him there, in front of many
witnesses. Use a hand phaser. When he is dead, you will claim that you
acted on behalf of Starfleet, in support of Kriosian independence. 
LAFORGE: I understand.

[La Forge's quarters]

(Geordi wakes from a nightmare) 
LAFORGE: La Forge to O'Brien. O'Brien? 
O'BRIEN [OC]: Go ahead, Commander, what can I do for you? 
LAFORGE: Nothing. Chief, I'm sorry to disturb you. I'm sorry.

