OBRIEN DATA LAFORGE CREWMAN

[Engineering]

LAFORGE: Intercooler flux down to five percent.
Plasma deviation steady at point seven two. 
CREWMAN: Aye, sir. 
LAFORGE: Well, if you guys keep running at this efficiency, I might as
well go back to Risa for another week. Just run through a level four
series, and then call it a night, huh? I'd help you, but there's
something I've got to take care of. 
[Ten Forward]

LAFORGE: Red Torian, please. (the drink is served)
Thank you. 
(O'Brien is sitting alone with his back to the bar. Geordi goes quietly
over then deliberately spills his drink over Miles' shoulder) 
LAFORGE: Oh! I'm sorry. 
(that gets the attention of Riker, Crusher and Kell) 
O'BRIEN: It's all right. 
LAFORGE: My glass, it just slipped. 
O'BRIEN: It's nothing, just a little cold. 
LAFORGE: Yeah, but you're all soaked here. 
O'BRIEN: It's nothing serious. 
LAFORGE: Let me get you something to wipe that off with. 
O'BRIEN: I'll just go to my quarters and change. 
LAFORGE: You sure? 
O'BRIEN: Don't think twice about it, Commander.

[Engineering]

(Data and Geordi are doing test firings of the
phaser rifle) 
DATA: Energy flow is within normal parameters, from the pre-fire
chamber to the emission aperture. 
LAFORGE: Rapid nadion pulse, right on target. Beam control assembly,
safety interlock, both checked out. Beam width intensity controls also
responding correctly. 
DATA: Energy cell usage remains constant at one point oh five
megajoules per second. Curious. The efficiency reading on the discharge
crystal is well above Starfleet specifications. 
LAFORGE: Yeah, by quite a bit. Ninety four point one percent
efficiency. 
DATA: Our most efficient discharge crystal typically fires with eighty
six point five percent efficiency. 
LAFORGE: Let's take a closer look at the wave pattern on the emission
beam. That might tell us why it's losing so little energy. 
DATA: Pulse frequency out of pre-fire chamber reads steady. 
LAFORGE: There. That's not right. The initial output spike is inverted.

DATA: That might suggest that the weapon has been charged with a forced
pulse, well into the terahertz range. 
LAFORGE: Then it's definitely not Starfleet issue and there can't be
that many systems that use the terahertz feeds. 
DATA: Three hundred twenty seven, to our knowledge. We can probably
achieve an exact match with a random computer search. It will take
approximately three hours. 
LAFORGE: I think we could narrow this down with a little common sense,
Data. Who has the most to gain from a conflict between the Klingon
Empire and the Federation?

