RIKER KEIKO PICARD MILES O'BRIEN CRUSHER DATA JENNA
oboe straighten socks gazes nearly night oblivious picking check

[Ten Forward]

(a quintet is playing. Data on oboe, Jenna on
flute, Keiko on clarinet, an alien on bassoon, and a man in casual
clothes on French horn) 
O'BRIEN: That was wonderful. 
KEIKO: Thank you. 
(Miles and Keiko embrace) 
MILES: Really wonderful. 
DATA: Is anything wrong? 
JENNA: My tempo was way off. I felt like I was rushing through the
whole piece. 
DATA: I do not believe that is so. Your rhythmic control has improved
markedly. I heard no fluctuations during the performance. 
JENNA: Well, maybe, but I ruined the coda. I got confused with the
phrasing again. I kept breathing at the wrong times. 
DATA: The contrapuntal nature of the composition is most demanding. We
will give more attention to the rhythmic patterns at our next
rehearsal. However, I am quite certain the audience was oblivious to
such nuances. They seemed to enjoy the performance thoroughly. 
JENNA: Thank you, Data. You're very generous. 
(later, at a table) 
KEIKO: Every night, Miles leaves his socks on the floor. When we got
married, I made the mistake of picking them up a few times. Then I
realised, if I kept it up I'd be doing it the rest of my life. So I
stopped, figuring he'd get the point and do it himself. One night goes
by, two, a week, ten days. By now there's a pile of socks half a metre
high. 
O'BRIEN: Come on, it wasn't half a metre. 
KEIKO: After two weeks I couldn't stand it any more. I bundled them up
and put them in the cleaning processor. And I'm still doing it. 
O'BRIEN: And a very good job she does of it, too. 
JENNA: Keiko, you sound just like Data. He came over to my quarters the
other day to give me a music lesson, and he said the funniest thing.
How did you put it, about the mess? 
DATA: I believe I observed that you seem to have an aversion to
orderliness. But it was not intended as a humourous remark. 
JENNA: So, before we started, he gallantly offered to help me
straighten up. 
DATA: And a very good job of it I did of it, too. 
(and Jenna hangs onto his arm, and gazes at him like Keiko gazes at
Miles)

[Bridge]

PICARD: Report, Mister Data. 
DATA: I am nearly finished compiling readings from our most recent
illuminatory burst. Dark matter density is nearly one order of
magnitude higher than in similar nebulae. Life forms here may have
developed in ways never before observed. 
RIKER: Interesting hypothesis. Are there any M-class planets we could
check out? 
DATA: Several, sir. The nearest is approximately three light hours from
our present position. 
PICARD: It's worth a look. We'll continue our survey along the way. 
[Sickbay]

CRUSHER: Let's increase the flow rate and see if
that helps. 
(she picks up an instrument that fell to the floor as she passed the
table)

