RIKER LAFORGE WORF PICARD LAFORGE [OC] THORNE MCKNIGHT DATA
localised van thirty avoid nebula instantaneous didn mayter haven

[Engineering]

LAFORGE: We're showing damage between decks. We
haven't localised it yet. 
(energy travels across a wall panel and throws a crewman to the floor) 
LAFORGE: Thorne, are you all right? 
THORNE: Yes, sir. 
LAFORGE: La Forge to Bridge. A cryogenic control conduit just blew out
on us. 
[Bridge]

LAFORGE [OC]: I almost lost a man. 
PICARD: Ensign, full stop. 
MCKNIGHT: Aye, sir. 
LAFORGE [OC]: La Forge to Bridge 
PICARD: Go ahead, Commander. 
LAFORGE: I think we have some structural damage between decks thirty
six and thirty seven. I'd better go check it out.

[Corridor]

LAFORGE: Van Mayter, you take access tube twenty
three M and look at the bridge connectors. Thorne, I'll cover the aft
section. You go down 
(Van Mayter, who had turned off down a corridor, screams. The men rush
back to see just her upper torso sticking out of the decking)

Captain's log, supplemental. This series of
unexplained events has now resulted in the death of a crewmember, but
it appears that Mister Data may have an explanation. 
[Observation lounge]

DATA: During the last occurrence, I was able to
confirm one of my hypotheses. The unusual preponderance of dark matter
in this nebula is causing small gaps in the fabric of normal space. As
the Enterprise moves through this nebula, it is colliding with these
deformations. 
LAFORGE: So every time we hit one, part of the ship momentarily phases
out of normal space. 
DATA: Or when one of them hits us. My readings suggest that the
deformations themselves are in motion. 
RIKER: It's a good thing one of these pockets didn't pass through a
photon torpedo casing or the matter-antimatter containment pods. 
PICARD: The question is, how do we get out? Mister Data, could you
reconfigure the sensors to detect these anomalies? 
DATA: Yes, sir, but only at extremely close range. Even at minimal
speed, it would be almost impossible to manoeuvre the Enterprise
quickly enough to avoid them. 
WORF: A shuttlecraft is more manoeuvrable. 
RIKER: He's right. If we could position the shuttlecraft far enough in
front of the Enterprise, it could detect the pockets and allow us
enough time to manoeuvre out of the way. 
LAFORGE: We could give the shuttle control of our navigational systems.
That way, the corresponding manoeuvres would be virtually
instantaneous. 
PICARD: Make it so.

