RIKER LAFORGE WORF PICARD MCKNIGHT DATA

[Corridor]

LAFORGE: Van Mayter, you take access tube twenty
three M and look at the bridge connectors. Thorne, I'll cover the aft
section. You go down 
(Van Mayter, who had turned off down a corridor, screams. The men rush
back to see just her upper torso sticking out of the decking)

Captain's log, supplemental. This series of
unexplained events has now resulted in the death of a crewmember, but
it appears that Mister Data may have an explanation. 
[Observation lounge]

DATA: During the last occurrence, I was able to
confirm one of my hypotheses. The unusual preponderance of dark matter
in this nebula is causing small gaps in the fabric of normal space. As
the Enterprise moves through this nebula, it is colliding with these
deformations. 
LAFORGE: So every time we hit one, part of the ship momentarily phases
out of normal space. 
DATA: Or when one of them hits us. My readings suggest that the
deformations themselves are in motion. 
RIKER: It's a good thing one of these pockets didn't pass through a
photon torpedo casing or the matter-antimatter containment pods. 
PICARD: The question is, how do we get out? Mister Data, could you
reconfigure the sensors to detect these anomalies? 
DATA: Yes, sir, but only at extremely close range. Even at minimal
speed, it would be almost impossible to manoeuvre the Enterprise
quickly enough to avoid them. 
WORF: A shuttlecraft is more manoeuvrable. 
RIKER: He's right. If we could position the shuttlecraft far enough in
front of the Enterprise, it could detect the pockets and allow us
enough time to manoeuvre out of the way. 
LAFORGE: We could give the shuttle control of our navigational systems.
That way, the corresponding manoeuvres would be virtually
instantaneous. 
PICARD: Make it so.

[Bridge]

RIKER: I'll do my pre-flight once I'm on board. 
PICARD: Not this time, Will. I want you on the Bridge. 
RIKER: Sir? 
PICARD: I'm going to pilot the shuttle. 
RIKER: Captain, it's my duty as First Officer to safeguard the lives on
this ship, including yours. The Enterprise can't afford to lose you,
sir. Certainly not in this situation. 
PICARD: I believe our best chance of escaping this situation is for me
to pilot the shuttle. It's my ship, Will. I've got to do this. 
RIKER: Sir.

[Shuttle]

(from this angle, the purple nebula is blue) 
PICARD: Shuttle three to Enterprise. Telemetry link enabled. 
DATA [OC]: Ship's computer is accepting navigational inputs from the
shuttle. 
PICARD: Forward sensors are online. Ensign McKnight, plot a course for
the shortest distance out of the nebula. 
MCKNIGHT [OC]: Plot laid in, sir. 
