RIKER WORF PICARD COMPUTER DATA JENNA

[Ready room]

RIKER [OC]: Riker to Captain Picard. I think you'd
better come out here, sir. 
PICARD: Acknowledged.

[Bridge]

RIKER: We've reached the designated coordinates,
but the M-class planet, it's gone. 
PICARD: Are you sure there was no malfunction in the sensors? 
DATA: The lateral EM scanners register radiation levels indicative of a
class-M planet. Sir. 
(a planet pops into view) 
PICARD: Mister Data, run a full systems diagnostic. 
COMPUTER: Warning. Atmospheric decompression in Bridge Observation
Lounge. Environmental compensation sequence has been initiated. 
WORF: I am not registering a hull breach. 
PICARD: Scan for lifeforms. 
WORF: None, sir. 
DATA: Captain. Standard air pressure has been reestablished in the
Observation lounge. 
PICARD: Let's have a look. Mister Data? 
[Observation lounge]

WORF: Captain. 
(the furniture is all piled up by the window) 
WORF: I do not understand. 
RIKER: Are you picking anything up, Data? 
DATA: I detect no unusual readings along standard parameters. Curious.
The transparent aluminum alloy of this window is exhibiting a pattern
of transient electrical currents. 
PICARD: Explanation? 
DATA: I have none. The rate is characteristic of a subspace distortion,
but I am picking up no evidence of a subspace field. 
PICARD: We'll hold position while we seek an explanation for these
anomalies. Let's divert all our resources to that end.

[Jenna's quarters]

DATA: Honey? I'm home. 
JENNA: Hi. 
DATA: Hi. 
JENNA: Any luck with your diagnostic? 
DATA: Negative. We found no malfunctions. 
JENNA: We did a full security sweep. Nothing. 
DATA: May I get you a drink, dear? 
JENNA: Well, yes. I'll have a Calaman Sherry. 
DATA: Excellent choice. I'll join you. Computer, two Calaman sherries.
Would you care for some dinner as well? 
JENNA: I'm too tired to think about what I want. Maybe later. 
DATA: Whatever you wish, dear. There we are. 
(he stops her from taking a drink) 
DATA: Darling, you remain as aesthetically pleasing as the first day we
met. I believe I am the most fortunate sentient in this sector of the
galaxy. Now, you relax. Put your feet up and I will take care of
everything. 
(Data starts by picking up her discarded clothing) 
DATA: I could organise your closets for you. I have found that by
grouping apparel first by function, and then by colour from light to
dark, one can more easily find one's desired choice. 
JENNA: Data, that's all right. You don't have to do that. 
DATA: But I am happy to do it. 
JENNA: Please, just put them down. 
(so he drops the clothes back on the floor) 
DATA: What do you wish me to do, dear? Am I not paying enough attention
to you? 
JENNA: Oh, no, that's not it. 
DATA: Perhaps I am not giving you enough compliments? Your hair is
looking particularly silky tonight. 
JENNA: Data, there's just something strange about the way you're
acting. 
DATA: Am I not behaving as a solicitous mate? 
JENNA: Well, yes, but. 
DATA: Tending to your every need? 
JENNA: What's wrong with you tonight? 
DATA: My most recent self-diagnostic revealed no malfunctions. Perhaps
there is something wrong with you. 
JENNA: I've never seen you behave so foolishly. Why are you doing this?

DATA: You don't tell me how to behave. You're not my mother. 
JENNA: What? 
DATA: You are not my mother. That is the appropriate response for your
statement that I am behaving foolishly. 
JENNA: Data, I think you should just leave. 
DATA: You do not wish to continue our lovers quarrel? 
JENNA: Is that what this is? 
DATA: In my study of interpersonal dynamics, I have found that conflict
followed by emotional release often strengthens the connection between
two people. 
JENNA: But there's something so forced and artificial about the way
you're doing it, Data. It's just not the real you. 
DATA: With regard to romantic relationships, there is no real me. I am
drawing upon various cultural and literary sources to help define my
role. 
JENNA: Kiss me. 
(they kiss) 
JENNA: What were you just thinking? 
DATA: In that particular moment, I was reconfiguring the warp field
parameters, analysing the collected works of Charles Dickens,
calculating the maximum pressure I could safely apply to your lips,
considering a new food supplement for Spot. 
JENNA: I'm glad I was in there somewhere.

