GUINAN CRUSHER DATA JENNA

[Sickbay]

CRUSHER: Let's increase the flow rate and see if
that helps. 
(she picks up an instrument that fell to the floor as she passed the
table)

[Torpedo bay]

JENNA: Sometimes in the summer we'd go on cookouts.
Just my little brother and me, and mother. She was hopeless without a
replicator. We didn't care. 
DATA: Children often do not develop discerning palettes until well
beyond adolescence. 
JENNA: It's wasn't that. It's just that we felt so good being together,
you know, as a family. We didn't have much of that after my father
died. so those times were really special. I wish we were back there
now, you and I. 
DATA: The unidirectional nature of the time continuum makes that an
unlikely possibility. 
JENNA: That what I love about you, Data. You make me laugh. I don't
know why I keep falling for the wrong man. Why can't I fall for
somebody like you. You're perfect. 
DATA: That is not true. I have no human feelings. 
JENNA: But you give me so much. You spend time with me when I was
lonely, you encouraged me when I'm down. No man has ever been kinder to
me. Those are the things that matter. I'd better be going. With your
permission, Commander. 
DATA: Permission granted. 
(she gives him a kiss on the cheek) 
JENNA: I don't know if you're aware of this, but you're very handsome. 
(she gives him a full on kiss) 
JENNA: I'll see you tomorrow. 
[Ten Forward]

(Guinan pours yellow and blue liquids into a tall
glass) 
GUINAN: Hello, Data. Would you like to try something new? It's a
concoction I heard about on Prakal Two. I think it's wonderful but I
need a second opinion. 
DATA: Eighty seven percent Saurian Brandy. Targ milk and Danisian mead
comprise the rest. There is an unusually high concentration of fructose
compounds and monosaccharides. 
GUINAN: Too sweet? Data, if I didn't know you better, I would say you
were a little preoccupied. 
DATA: Lieutenant D'Sora just gave me what could be considered a very
passionate kiss in the torpedo bay. 
GUINAN: Really? And? 
DATA: I was intrigued. Jenna seemed to be displaying genuine affection
for me. 
GUINAN: Well, what do you think of her, Data? 
DATA: I find her to be a competent officer. Highly motivated, though
somewhat lacking in her understanding of the theory underlying the
dilithium matrix application. 
GUINAN: I meant personally? 
DATA: I look forward to the time we spend together. 
GUINAN: Well, then it seems the next move is yours. What are you going
to do? 
DATA: I do not know. I have no experience in such matters. I require
advice. 
GUINAN: Don't look at me. No, no, Data, I simply mean that I can't give
you any advice here. It's not good to advise people about their first
love affairs. That's kind of something they have to figure out for
themselves. 
DATA: But I am not capable of love. 
GUINAN: Then it's going to be a very unique experience.

