TROI COMPUTER DATA LAFORGE
living needs sum programmed mechanism aware computer coming sections

[Corridor]

LAFORGE: Data. Missing someone? I found Spot
wandering through the corridor two sections away. 
DATA: Thank you. 
LAFORGE: Forget to secure the door when you left? 
DATA: The door sensor is programmed to recognise only humanoid forms
for
entry and egress. Spot could not have triggered the mechanism.

[Data's quarters]

LAFORGE: Maybe someone came in while you were away,
let him out by accident. Has anything been disturbed? 
DATA: It does not appear so. Computer, has anyone been in my quarters
in the last twelve hours other than Commander La Forge and myself? 
COMPUTER: Negative. 
LAFORGE: That's really strange. You know, to be on the safe side maybe
I should report a possible unauthorised entry to Security. 
DATA: Geordi, may I ask your advice in a personal matter? 
LAFORGE: Sure, Data. 
DATA: Should I pursue a relationship with Lieutenant D'Sora? 
LAFORGE: I thought she and Jeff Arton 
DATA: They have discontinued their association. She has made the first
move in initiating a relationship with me. What should I do? 
LAFORGE: She's just coming out of a bad situation. You know, sometimes
it takes people a while, Data, but then, if they jump right into
another relationship, you see, that can be trouble, unless, of course,
she's really ready, and then I guess it depends on whether or not
you're really serious. This can be a little complicated. Listen, my
advice is ask somebody else for advice. At least someone who's got more
experience at giving advice.

[Troi's office]

TROI: I think you should be careful. This isn't
just some experiment you're running, Data. Jenna is a living, breathing
person with needs and feelings that have to be considered. 
DATA: Then you do not believe I should pursue this any further. 
TROI: I didn't say that. I just want you to be aware that this is
unlike any other more casual relationship that you've attempted. 
DATA: I have studied much human literature on the subject of love and
romantic liaisons. There are many role models for me to emulate. 
TROI: Ultimately, Jenna will care for you for what you are, not what
you imitate out of a book. 
DATA: My programming may be inadequate to the task. 
TROI: We're all more than the sum of our parts, Data. You'll have to be
more than the sum of your programming.

