PICARD DATA JENNA WORF

[Bridge]

WORF: Yes, Captain. 
PICARD [OC]: Would you step into my Ready room, please. And bring a
tricorder with you. 
WORF: Aye, Captain. 
[Ready room]

WORF: Captain? 
PICARD: What do you make of this? 
(Worf scans the wreckage) 
WORF: I am puzzled, sir. 
PICARD: So am I, Mister Worf. 
WORF: Captain, the only detectable bioelectric residuals are your own.
You did not 
PICARD: No. I did not. Perhaps we have a poltergeist. 
WORF: Sir? 
PICARD: A mischievous spirit. 
WORF: Sir. 
PICARD: Perhaps not. 
WORF: I cannot explain how an intruder entered this room, but I
recommend we go to Red Alert. 
PICARD: Not yet. 
WORF: Then I will order one of my officers to stand watch. Worf to
Ensign 
PICARD: That's alright, Mister Worf. I think, for now, circumstances
warrant caution, nothing more. 
WORF: As you wish, Captain.

[Data's quarters]

(Data is painting when the doorbell rings) 
DATA: Enter. 
(Jenna is carrying a sculpture) 
JENNA: I know it's a little unexpected. 
DATA: You are correct. I did not anticipate your arrival until nineteen
hundred hours. 
JENNA: I couldn't wait. I wanted you to have this. 
DATA: You have often expressed dissatisfaction with the spartan nature
of my quarters. Is this an attempt at embellishment? 
JENNA: The cat's out of the bag. 
DATA: Spot? 
JENNA: No, I mean you've caught me in the act. I'm just trying to
brighten things up around here. It's Tyrinean. What do you think? 
DATA: Its line is both fluid and formal, yet retains an unpremeditated
quality. The tactility of its surface
embellishment is evocative of the neo-primitive period in Tyrinean
blade carving. 
JENNA: I hadn't thought of it that way. I'm sorry. Don't let me
interrupt. 
DATA: As you wish. 
(he returns to his painting) 
JENNA: Data? 
DATA: Yes? 
JENNA: The Book of Love, chapter four, paragraph seventeen: When your
girlfriend arrives with a gift, stop whatever it is you're doing, and
give her your undivided attention. 
DATA: I should not have resumed my painting? 
JENNA: No. 
DATA: Despite your suggestion that I continue? 
JENNA: Exactly. 
DATA: I have much to learn. 
JENNA: Why don't we start with this. A critical analysis isn't
necessarily the best response to a gift. 
DATA: Perhaps if I looked for a suitable place to display it? 
JENNA: Much better. 
DATA: The ambient light in this location accentuates its contours.
However, a gift should not necessarily be placed according to aesthetic
criteria. A more central location will carry added meaning. 
JENNA: Data, what's important is that you're trying. You don't know how
much that means to me. Why don't you go back to your painting? Oh, I
really mean it this time. I'll see you tonight.

[Corridor]

(a piece of bulkhead melts to reveal circuitry,
then covers over again)

