GUINAN COMPUTER DATA LAFORGE
affairs capable understanding thought depends computer coming discontinued comprise

[Ten Forward]

(Guinan pours yellow and blue liquids into a tall
glass) 
GUINAN: Hello, Data. Would you like to try something new? It's a
concoction I heard about on Prakal Two. I think it's wonderful but I
need a second opinion. 
DATA: Eighty seven percent Saurian Brandy. Targ milk and Danisian mead
comprise the rest. There is an unusually high concentration of fructose
compounds and monosaccharides. 
GUINAN: Too sweet? Data, if I didn't know you better, I would say you
were a little preoccupied. 
DATA: Lieutenant D'Sora just gave me what could be considered a very
passionate kiss in the torpedo bay. 
GUINAN: Really? And? 
DATA: I was intrigued. Jenna seemed to be displaying genuine affection
for me. 
GUINAN: Well, what do you think of her, Data? 
DATA: I find her to be a competent officer. Highly motivated, though
somewhat lacking in her understanding of the theory underlying the
dilithium matrix application. 
GUINAN: I meant personally? 
DATA: I look forward to the time we spend together. 
GUINAN: Well, then it seems the next move is yours. What are you going
to do? 
DATA: I do not know. I have no experience in such matters. I require
advice. 
GUINAN: Don't look at me. No, no, Data, I simply mean that I can't give
you any advice here. It's not good to advise people about their first
love affairs. That's kind of something they have to figure out for
themselves. 
DATA: But I am not capable of love. 
GUINAN: Then it's going to be a very unique experience.

[Corridor]

LAFORGE: Data. Missing someone? I found Spot
wandering through the corridor two sections away. 
DATA: Thank you. 
LAFORGE: Forget to secure the door when you left? 
DATA: The door sensor is programmed to recognise only humanoid forms
for
entry and egress. Spot could not have triggered the mechanism.

[Data's quarters]

LAFORGE: Maybe someone came in while you were away,
let him out by accident. Has anything been disturbed? 
DATA: It does not appear so. Computer, has anyone been in my quarters
in the last twelve hours other than Commander La Forge and myself? 
COMPUTER: Negative. 
LAFORGE: That's really strange. You know, to be on the safe side maybe
I should report a possible unauthorised entry to Security. 
DATA: Geordi, may I ask your advice in a personal matter? 
LAFORGE: Sure, Data. 
DATA: Should I pursue a relationship with Lieutenant D'Sora? 
LAFORGE: I thought she and Jeff Arton 
DATA: They have discontinued their association. She has made the first
move in initiating a relationship with me. What should I do? 
LAFORGE: She's just coming out of a bad situation. You know, sometimes
it takes people a while, Data, but then, if they jump right into
another relationship, you see, that can be trouble, unless, of course,
she's really ready, and then I guess it depends on whether or not
you're really serious. This can be a little complicated. Listen, my
advice is ask somebody else for advice. At least someone who's got more
experience at giving advice.

