PICARD DATA JENNA
takes environments considerable place officer kiss disorder class log

[Bridge]

DATA: Captain, I am seeking advice in how 
PICARD: Yes, I've heard, Data, and I would be delighted to offer any
advice I can on understanding women. When as I have some, I'll let you
know.

Second Officer's personal log, stardate 44935.6.
After conferring with my colleagues regarding the nature of romantic
love in general, and my own situation in particular, I have reached a
decision.

[Jenna's quarters]

(Data rings the doorbell. He is bearing flowers) 
JENNA: They're lovely. Come in. What are they? 
DATA: A variety of crystilia. Their fragrance is an evolutionary
response to the acrid nature of the atmosphere on Telemarius Four. 
JENNA: You silver-tongued devil. Why don't I find a place to put these.
Which won't be that easy. Ah. 
(she takes some old flowers out of a vase and puts the new ones in
their place) 
DATA: It seems your quarters have reverted to their earlier state of
disorder. 
JENNA: I know. I'm hopeless. There. (on the table) They're beautiful,
Data. It's really sweet of you. 
DATA: Commander Riker suggested this particular flower. He said it had
worked for him in the past. 
(Data holds out his arms for an embrace) 
JENNA: You didn't talk to the entire ship about us. 
DATA: No. In actuality, less than one percent of the Enterprise crew
was involved. It was necessary to balance theory with
experiential referents. Both are required for a programme of this
nature. Computer, decrease illumination level by one third standard
lux. 
(he clears the sofa then puts out an arm. She is meant to snuggle into
it) 
JENNA: This is all part of a programme? 
DATA: Yes. One which I have just created for romantic relationships. 
JENNA: So I'm just a small variable in one of your new computational
environments? 
DATA: You are much more than that, Jenna. I have written a subroutine
specifically for you. A
programme within the programme.
I have devoted a considerable share of my internal resources to its
development. 
JENNA: Data, that's the nicest thing anybody's ever said to me. 
(he finally manages to pull her in for a kiss)

[Bridge]

PICARD: Estimated time of arrival, Mister Data? 
DATA: We will reach the class M planet in approximately eleven hours,
sir. 
PICARD: You have the Bridge, Number One.

