KURN B'ETOR GOWRON WORF PICARD K'TAL WOMAN LURSA MOVAR TORAL
doj grasp hon challengers sisters wretch stand ask hall

[Ready room]

PICARD: Come. 
WORF: Captain, I request a leave of absence. 
PICARD: Mister Worf, request granted. 
WORF: Thank you, sir. 
PICARD: Lieutenant. Qapla! 
(Worf leaves) 
PICARD: And good luck.

Lieutenant Worf, personal log, stardate 44996.1. I
have located the Klingon ship on which my brother Kurn serves as
captain, and have arranged to join him.

[Kurn's ready room]

KURN: It has been too long, my brother. 
WORF: Too long. We have much to discuss. I have asked Gowron to restore
our family honour. He has refused. 
KURN: Gowron will not live to see the day he leads the Council. 
WORF: What do you mean? 
KURN: He stands alone, surrounded by his enemies. Lursa and B'Etor will
have him killed. And if they don't, I will. 
WORF: You will? 
KURN: Gowron is weak. The family of Duras must never be allowed to lead
the Council. Our leaders have failed us. They no longer deserve our
loyalty. It is time to sweep away the old Council and put a new one in
its place. 
WORF: How can this be done? 
KURN: I already have the support of four squadron commanders in key
strategic sectors. When the time comes, they will follow me. Join us,
Worf, and we will usher in a new era and regain our family name. 
(Worf thinks about it) 
WORF: No. 
KURN: What? 
WORF: Gowron has completed the Rite of Succession. It is our duty to
support him. 
KURN: Gowron spits in your face when you ask him to give back what is
rightfully ours and you would support him? 
WORF: We cannot regain honour by acting dishonourably. 
KURN: I will not support Gowron. 
WORF: I am the elder brother, Kurn. I speak for our family. We will
back Gowron. But not now. Not yet. We will wait until he feels the
grasp of his enemies around his throat. Then we will offer him our
support. And the price will be the restoration of our family name. 
KURN: It will be difficult to convince my allies to back Gowron. But I
will try. I must go to the Mempa sector to meet with the other squadron
commanders. 
WORF: Contact me when you have gained their support. Then I will be
ready for Gowron.

Captain's log, stardate 44996.8. My role as Arbiter
of Succession has again brought me to the Great Hall of the Klingon
High Council.

[Great Hall]

K'TAL: naDev ghoS! 
(Picard walks forward) 
K'TAL: Have you reached a decision regarding the succession of power? 
PICARD: Qaja plu d'itch jung. La woq you ghir klas qimha. Gowron. Doj
hon. Doj hon. 
K'TAL: Gowron, son of M'Rel, hakt'em. The Arbiter confirms that you
have completed the Rite of Succession. Your enemies have been
destroyed. You stand alone. Do you wish to claim leadership of the
Council? 
GOWRON: I wish it. 
K'TAL: Are there no other challengers? 
(just as Picard is about to put the cloak on Gowron's shoulders) 
TORAL: There is one. I will challenge him. 
GOWRON: An arrogant child! 
K'TAL: Who are you? 
TORAL: I am Toral, son of Duras. 
GOWRON: Duras had no son. 
B'ETOR: But he did, Gowron. 
GOWRON: So, this is your doing, Lursa. 
LURSA: We wish to address the Council. 
K'TAL: Lursa, B'Etor, come forward. 
LURSA: Members of the High Council, it is a day of great rejoicing for
the family of Duras and the Klingon Empire. We have discovered that our
brother did indeed have a son and heir. 
GOWRON: This is outrageous. Duras had no mate. Where did you find him,
Lursa? In a harlot's bedchamber? 
TORAL: I will personally cut your tongue out, Yintagh! 
GOWRON: Impudent wretch. 
B'ETOR: A simple genetic scan will prove his bloodline is valid. 
GOWRON: The illegitimate son of Duras cannot rule the High Council. 
K'TAL: The Arbiter will consider his validity. Len'mat.

[Duras home]

(the sisters have Romulan visitors) 
LURSA: Our allies on the Council backed Toral's claim. It's in Picard's
hands, now. 
MOVAR: Excellent. Everything is proceeding as scheduled. 
TORAL: Why not just kill Picard? 
B'ETOR: Fool! Do we want the Federation as our enemy? 
TORAL: No. 
(and from the shadows, that familiar voice again) 
WOMAN: At least, not yet. But when the time is right we will deal with
the Federation and Captain Picard.

