KURN PICARD RIKER DATA WORF

[Worf's quarters]

KURN [on monitor]: I have met with the other
squadron commanders here. Three will join us, one will not. That gives
us enough strength to control seven key sectors. 
WORF: Do you know the strength of our enemies? 
KURN [on monitor]: They have at least seven squadrons, but most of the
fleet has not decided which banner to follow. 
WORF: Gowron is nearly out of options. Soon he will have no choice 
KURN [on monitor]: I will return soon to the home world. We shall meet
then.

[Bridge]

DATA: Do you also require the original logs
recorded during the attack, Lieutenant? 
WORF: Everything we have on the Khitomer massacre. 
DATA: We can provide you with our analysis of the communications
between the Khitomer outpost and the Romulan ships. However, for a
complete record you will have to contact Starbase twenty four 
PICARD: Mister Worf. Have you cancelled your leave? 
WORF: No, sir. 
PICARD: Lieutenant, would you join me in my Ready room?

[Ready room]

PICARD: Mister Worf, you're using our files on the
Khitomer massacre as evidence against Duras' father? 
WORF: Yes, sir. 
PICARD: Do you not see an inherent conflict of interest here? 
WORF: Sir, those Federation records will help me prove that my father
was falsely accused of treason. 
PICARD: You are using your position as a Starfleet officer to affect
political change on your planet. There could not be a worse compromise
of our fundamental principles. 
WORF: Do not tie my hands now. I must be able to prove my father's
innocence. Those Federation records can do that. 
PICARD: Mister Worf. Here I am lecturing you on a conflict of interest
while I'm desperately trying to avoid one of my own. Do you think I
wish to allow the Duras family to solidify their hold on the Council?
Do you think I cannot see for myself the implications for the
Federation? Good Lord, Duras tried to have me killed! All of my
instincts, my training, my very being as a Starfleet officer are at
odds with my responsibilities as Arbiter of the Klingon High Council.
We walk the same tightrope between two worlds, you and I. We must try
our very best to keep those two worlds separate, or we shall certainly
fall. 
WORF: Yes, sir. 
PICARD: I will make the Khitomer massacre files available to anyone who
wants them. To the High Council, to the Duras family, to you. Anyone. 
WORF: Thank you, sir. 
PICARD: Mister Worf, this is as far as I can go. 
(Worf leaves) 
RIKER [OC]: Riker to Picard. 
PICARD: Yes, Number One. 
[Bridge]

RIKER: There's a message coming in for you from the
surface. It's coded personal. 
