B'ETOR GOWRON WORF PICARD K'TAL LURSA TORAL
calling like opposite shall son leadership human message quite

[Ready room]

PICARD: Send it through.

[Duras home]

B'ETOR: Captain, welcome. Please, come in. Be
seated. 
(B'Etor is a very tactile woman, she likes to touch people) 
LURSA: Something to drink, Captain? Tea. Earl Grey, perhaps? 
PICARD: Thank you. 
B'ETOR: You come alone, and unarmed 
PICARD: Nothing would be served by killing the Arbiter before his
decision. 
B'ETOR: Nevertheless, a brave act, Captain. 
LURSA: B'Etor. 
PICARD: Your invitation was unexpected. 
B'ETOR: We should have extended it much sooner. 
LURSA: We don't want you to judge us by your experience with our
brother. 
B'ETOR: Duras was a fool. 
LURSA: He deserved to die. 
B'ETOR: Forget him. We have. 
LURSA: We do not wish to be your enemy. 
B'ETOR: Quite the opposite. 
PICARD: That pleases me. 
LURSA: Have you made your decision regarding Toral's challenge? 
PICARD: I am pursuing it with due vigilance. 
(B'Etor kneels by Picard) 
B'ETOR: Allow me to heat your tea. 
LURSA: Toral has the bloodline to lead the Empire into the next
century. He has the support of the people. 
PICARD: Then it remains to see if he has the support of the law. 
B'ETOR: But he must. Surely, you can see that. 
PICARD: I'll tell you what I see. If I find Toral's challenge valid,
the two of you will very quickly gain control of the Council and Gowron
will be found dead shortly thereafter. If I reject Toral's claim, you
will accuse me of serving Federation interests. It will serve as a
rallying cry to declare war and overthrow Gowron. 
LURSA: You see very clearly, Captain. But one thing is missing. If you
rule against us and we are victorious in a war against Gowron. 
B'ETOR: Which we would be 
LURSA: It will mean the end of the alliance with the Federation. 
B'ETOR: And we would hate to see that happen as much as you would. 
LURSA: This is not a threat, Captain. Just an unfortunate truth. 
B'ETOR: So why be our enemy, when you can be our friend? 
PICARD: You have manipulated the circumstances with the skill of a
Romulan. My decision will be announced at high sun tomorrow. Excellent
tea. Good day, ladies.

[Great Hall]

K'TAL: What is your decision? 
PICARD: K'Tal, this Council knows the law of heredity well. G'now juk
Hol pajhard. A son shall share in the honours or crimes of his father.
Toral is Duras' son. That has been established by the genetic scan. But
with due respect to the traditions and laws of this High Council, there
is no basis for accepting a petition for leadership from a boy who has
fought no battles, shed no blood for his people, or earned no honour
for himself. One day, perhaps he shall. But not now. Duras is dead. His
claim to the leadership died with him. Gowron shall lead the Council. 
GOWRON: The Arbiter has ruled. There are no more challengers. 
TORAL: Does the Federation dictate Klingon destiny or do we? Follow me
and I will show you honour. 
GOWRON: Follow him and you reject all Klingon law. 
(but council members move to stand behind the Duras group) 
GOWRON: Can you not see what you are doing? Are you blind to what they
represent? Then go. Your blood will paint the way to the future. 
[Gowron's Ready room]

GOWRON: Your message said it was urgent. What do
you want? 
WORF: Your forces are weak, Gowron. You need help to fight the family
of Duras. 
GOWRON: From one dishonoured Klingon. 
WORF: I offer you four Klingon squadrons. 
GOWRON: Why would they follow you, a Starfleet officer? 
WORF: They are pledged to support my brother, Kurn. 
GOWRON: Kurn is your brother? 
WORF: Yes. His true bloodlines were hidden to protect him. 
GOWRON: Kurn will follow me? He has opposed me in the past. 
WORF: I am the elder brother. He will do as I say. 
GOWRON: What is it you want in return? 
WORF: You know my price. 
GOWRON: The return of your honour. For the support of four squadrons?
No, that will not be enough. The Duras family controls most of the
fleet. We must have Federation help. 
WORF: They will not intervene. 
GOWRON: Perhaps not yet, but Starfleet Command will listen to Picard
and Picard listens to you. 
WORF: I can ask nothing more of him in this matter. 
GOWRON: What? 
WORF: My duty as a Starfleet officer 
GOWRON: You come to me and demand the restoration of your family honour
and now you hide behind human excuses? What are you, Worf? Do you
tremble and quake with fear at the approach of combat, hoping to talk
your way out of a fight like a human? Or do you hear the cry of the
warrior calling you to battle, calling you to glory like a Klingon? 
(and someone opens fire on the Bortas) 
