ALL KLINGON GOWRON WORF PICARD RIKER K'TAL KURN [on viewscreen]
represent detect installation attend certain thousand aim principle humanity

[Gowron's Bridge]

KLINGON: Port shields are still down. 
WORF: Disruptors online. 
GOWRON: Lock on target. 
WORF: No. Don't you see? Their sensors will detect the weapons lock. If
they think we're helpless, they will try to board the ship.
I can aim and fire disruptors manually when they drop their shields. 
GOWRON: GhoS. 
WORF: Thirty five thousand kellicams. Twenty thousand kellicams. Now
within transporter range. 
GOWRON: SuH. 
WORF: They're dropping their shields. 
GOWRON: BaH! 
(KaBOOM) 
WORF: Firing on second target. 
KLINGON: They were able to raise the shields in time. Minor damage
only. 
(the ship fires on the Bortas) 
WORF: Disruptors offline. 
GOWRON: All power to shields. 
KLINGON: Shields failing! 
(another Klingon ship swoops in and drives off their attacker) 
WORF: Incoming message. 
GOWRON: On viewer. 
KURN [on viewscreen]: This is Captain Kurn of the Hegh'ta. We come to
defend the Empire and to follow the banner of Gowron. 
WORF: The enemy has sustained major damage to its life support systems
They have disengaged. 
GOWRON: You have done well, Commander Kurn. Lursa and B'Etor have moved
more quickly than I anticipated. We shall not
underestimate them again. Meet us at the Great Hall. 
(transmission ends) 
GOWRON: Advise the Enterprise that their delegation is welcome to
attend my installation as leader.

Captain's log, stardate 44998.3. With new-found
support, Gowron has chosen to proceed with the installation ceremony.
The Enterprise has returned so that I may perform my final duty as
Arbiter of Succession. 
[Great hall]

(Picard places the Chancellor's cloak on Gowron's
shoulders) 
K'TAL: Receive now the loyalty of the Council and of the Empire. 
ALL: Qapla! 
GOWRON: naDev ghoS. 
(Worf and Kurn step forward) 
GOWRON: You both fought as warriors. You have proved your hearts are
Klingon. 
(he draws a dagger, and Worf grips its blade firmly) 
GOWRON: I return your family honour. I give you back that which was
wrongfully taken from you. Let your name be spoken once again. You are
Worf, son of Mogh.

[Observation lounge]

GOWRON: The Duras family is gathering a large force
near Beta Thoridar. As per the terms of the Treaty of Alliance, I now
formally request your assistance in fighting these enemies of the
Empire. 
RIKER: These enemies are Klingons. 
GOWRON: By right and tradition, I am the sole leader. All who oppose me
are traitors. 
PICARD: I understand your position, but I', sure you're aware that the
Federation cannot interfere in what is, by definition, an internal
Klingon affair. 
GOWRON: You arbitrated the Rite of Succession. You are already
involved. 
PICARD: My duties in that regard are finished. 
WORF: Captain, we must intervene. The Duras family is corrupt and
hungry for power with no sense of honour or loyalty. They represent a
grave threat to the security of the Federation. Captain, you and I know
that they have conspired with Romulans in the past. If they should be
victors in this war, they will surely form a new Klingon-Romulan
alliance. That would represent a fundamental shift of power in this
quadrant. Starfleet must support Gowron. It is in the interests of both
the Federation and the Empire. I beg you, support us in our cause. 
PICARD: Mister Worf, I don't have to lecture you on the principle of
non interference. As Starfleet officers, we have all sworn an oath to
uphold that principle whatever our personal feelings. I'm sorry. I must
refuse your request. 
(Worf starts to follow Gowron out of the room) 
PICARD: Mister Worf. I'm afraid I must recall you to duty. The
Enterprise will be leaving this sector immediately. 
WORF: Captain, I respectfully request that I be allowed to take an
extended leave of absence. 
PICARD: Mister Worf, your responsibilities as a Starfleet officer are
incompatible with remaining on board a Klingon ship during a time of
war. 
WORF: Captain. 
PICARD: I order you to return to duty at once. 
WORF: Then I resign my commission as a Starfleet officer. 
(Worf puts his comm. badge on the table)
GOWRON: I will await you aboard the Bortas.

[Worf's quarters]

(Worf is now in Klingon uniform, and packing a case
when the doorbell rings) 
WORF: Enter. 
PICARD: Am I intruding? 
WORF: No, sir. 
PICARD: I understand that you'll be serving on board the Bortas. 
WORF: As weapons officer. 
PICARD: Your tactical knowledge and experience will serve them well. 
WORF: Thank you, sir. 
PICARD: Mister Worf, are you certain that this is the right decision? 
WORF: I was rescued from Khitomer by humans. Raised and loved by human
parents. I've spent most of my life around humans, fought beside them.
But I was born a Klingon. My heart is of that world. I do hear the cry
of the warrior. I belong with my people. 
PICARD: Being the only Klingon ever to serve in Starfleet gave you a
singular distinction, but I felt that what was unique about you was
your humanity, compassion, generosity, fairness. You took the best
qualities of humanity and made them part of you. The result was a man
who I was proud to call one of my officers. I'll have your belongings
transported to the Bortas. 
WORF: Thank you, sir. 
