KURN B'ETOR GOWRON WORF PICARD K'TAL GUINAN COMPUTER LURSA TORAL
begin allies leaders started hits hon consider hall luck

[Phaser range]

(Worf is practicing shooting moving coloured
targets when someone enters) 
WORF: Guinan? 
GUINAN: It's a little quiet down in Ten Forward, so I thought I'd get
off a little target practice. Do you mind if I join you? 
WORF: You? Practise? 
GUINAN: I like to keep my eye sharp. 
WORF: I practice at level fourteen. 
GUINAN: Guess I could come down to that level for a while. Begin
programme. 
(and Guinan gets the first target before Worf realises it has started) 
GUINAN: You know, I had a bet with the Captain that I could make you
laugh before you became Lieutenant Commander. 
WORF: Not a good bet today. 
GUINAN: I've seen you laugh. I like it. 
WORF: Klingons do not laugh. 
(he misses) 
GUINAN: Oh yes they do. Absolutely they do. You don't. But I've heard
some Klingon belly laughs that would curl your hair. 
(Guinan gets three hits, Worf gets two hits and a miss) 
GUINAN: Your son laughs. He's a Klingon. 
WORF: He is a child and part human. 
GUINAN: That's right. And you're not, you're full Klingon except you
don't laugh. 
WORF: I do not laugh because I do not feel like laughing. 
GUINAN: Other Klingons feel like laughing. What does that say about
you? 
WORF: Perhaps it says that I do not feel like other Klingons. 
(another miss) 
COMPUTER: Programme complete. 
GUINAN: Good game. Don't feel bad. I was doing this long before you
were born. So how is he? Your son. 
WORF: He is having difficulty adjusting to life on Earth. 
GUINAN: I can see where it might be hard for the little guy. Living
with humans, being Klingon. Could be very confusing. 
WORF: It will not be easy for him. 
GUINAN: No, it won't. But at some point he's going to want to know what
it's like to really be a Klingon. Just as you're learning.

[Ready room]

PICARD: Come. 
WORF: Captain, I request a leave of absence. 
PICARD: Mister Worf, request granted. 
WORF: Thank you, sir. 
PICARD: Lieutenant. Qapla! 
(Worf leaves) 
PICARD: And good luck.

Lieutenant Worf, personal log, stardate 44996.1. I
have located the Klingon ship on which my brother Kurn serves as
captain, and have arranged to join him.

[Kurn's ready room]

KURN: It has been too long, my brother. 
WORF: Too long. We have much to discuss. I have asked Gowron to restore
our family honour. He has refused. 
KURN: Gowron will not live to see the day he leads the Council. 
WORF: What do you mean? 
KURN: He stands alone, surrounded by his enemies. Lursa and B'Etor will
have him killed. And if they don't, I will. 
WORF: You will? 
KURN: Gowron is weak. The family of Duras must never be allowed to lead
the Council. Our leaders have failed us. They no longer deserve our
loyalty. It is time to sweep away the old Council and put a new one in
its place. 
WORF: How can this be done? 
KURN: I already have the support of four squadron commanders in key
strategic sectors. When the time comes, they will follow me. Join us,
Worf, and we will usher in a new era and regain our family name. 
(Worf thinks about it) 
WORF: No. 
KURN: What? 
WORF: Gowron has completed the Rite of Succession. It is our duty to
support him. 
KURN: Gowron spits in your face when you ask him to give back what is
rightfully ours and you would support him? 
WORF: We cannot regain honour by acting dishonourably. 
KURN: I will not support Gowron. 
WORF: I am the elder brother, Kurn. I speak for our family. We will
back Gowron. But not now. Not yet. We will wait until he feels the
grasp of his enemies around his throat. Then we will offer him our
support. And the price will be the restoration of our family name. 
KURN: It will be difficult to convince my allies to back Gowron. But I
will try. I must go to the Mempa sector to meet with the other squadron
commanders. 
WORF: Contact me when you have gained their support. Then I will be
ready for Gowron.

Captain's log, stardate 44996.8. My role as Arbiter
of Succession has again brought me to the Great Hall of the Klingon
High Council.

[Great Hall]

K'TAL: naDev ghoS! 
(Picard walks forward) 
K'TAL: Have you reached a decision regarding the succession of power? 
PICARD: Qaja plu d'itch jung. La woq you ghir klas qimha. Gowron. Doj
hon. Doj hon. 
K'TAL: Gowron, son of M'Rel, hakt'em. The Arbiter confirms that you
have completed the Rite of Succession. Your enemies have been
destroyed. You stand alone. Do you wish to claim leadership of the
Council? 
GOWRON: I wish it. 
K'TAL: Are there no other challengers? 
(just as Picard is about to put the cloak on Gowron's shoulders) 
TORAL: There is one. I will challenge him. 
GOWRON: An arrogant child! 
K'TAL: Who are you? 
TORAL: I am Toral, son of Duras. 
GOWRON: Duras had no son. 
B'ETOR: But he did, Gowron. 
GOWRON: So, this is your doing, Lursa. 
LURSA: We wish to address the Council. 
K'TAL: Lursa, B'Etor, come forward. 
LURSA: Members of the High Council, it is a day of great rejoicing for
the family of Duras and the Klingon Empire. We have discovered that our
brother did indeed have a son and heir. 
GOWRON: This is outrageous. Duras had no mate. Where did you find him,
Lursa? In a harlot's bedchamber? 
TORAL: I will personally cut your tongue out, Yintagh! 
GOWRON: Impudent wretch. 
B'ETOR: A simple genetic scan will prove his bloodline is valid. 
GOWRON: The illegitimate son of Duras cannot rule the High Council. 
K'TAL: The Arbiter will consider his validity. Len'mat.

