KURN TROI WORF PICARD SELA GUINAN CRUSHER
bar knocking victorious klingons home struck left outpost gave

[Observation lounge]

PICARD: So you believe her, Counsellor? 
TROI: I'm not saying we should accept her claim at face value, but I
sensed no deception from her. She really believes she is the daughter
of Tasha Yar. 
CRUSHER: Regardless of what she believes, Sela can't be her daughter.
I've reviewed all of Tasha's medical records, and there is no
indication that she was ever pregnant. 
PICARD: Besides, Tasha was a child when this woman was born. 
TROI: Sela could have been cloned. 
CRUSHER: Or had her appearance surgically altered. 
PICARD: But why? What possible advantage could there be to the
Romulans? As this now stands, I don't think this will have any impact
on our strategy. We'll continue the blockade, leave the next move to
them. Thank you. 
(Beverly and Deanna leave, then Guinan enters) 
GUINAN: Am I intruding? 
PICARD: No, not at all. Is something wrong? 
GUINAN: News travels fast. I heard that Tasha Yar's daughter is aboard
the Romulan ship. 
PICARD: I think that the Romulans are just hoping to create a
distraction. They want to keep us off balance. 
GUINAN: How much do you know about what happened to the last ship
called Enterprise? 
PICARD: Enterprise C? She was lost at the battle of Narendra Three,
defending a Klingon outpost from the Romulans. 
GUINAN: And the survivors? 
PICARD: There were stories of prisoners taken back to Romulus, but
these were only rumours. 
GUINAN: No. There were survivors. And Tasha Yar was one of them. 
PICARD: Guinan, that was twenty three years ago. Tasha Yar was only a
child. 
GUINAN: I know that. But I also know she was aboard that ship and she
was not a child. And I think you sent her there. 
PICARD: How can that be? 
GUINAN: I don't know. I just know that you did. 
PICARD: Tasha died, a year before you came on the Enterprise. You never
met her. 
GUINAN: I know that. 
PICARD: If you have only a vague intuition 
GUINAN: You can't just dismiss this. If I'm right, then you are
responsible for this whole situation. 
PICARD: I think that it's time I met Commander Sela.

[Klingon bar]

WORF: We are at war. Gowron should forbid any
challenges until we are victorious. 
KURN: A Klingon does not postpone a matter of honour. 
WORF: A Klingon should place the good of the Empire above his own
pride. 
KURN: So now Gowron no longer suits you. Perhaps you mean to challenge
him for the leadership of the Council? 
WORF: No. 
KURN: Then do not speak of this again! I did not wish to follow Gowron.
You came to me and insisted we support Gowron against the Duras family.
The time for debate is over. We are Klingons. He is our leader. If that
is not enough for you, then perhaps you made the wrong choice when you
put on that uniform. 
(Kurn leaves, and two Klingons attack Worf, knocking him out and
dragging him away)

[Observation lounge]

SELA: Well, Captain, what is this urgent matter we
need to discuss? 
PICARD: Please, won't you sit down? 
(she folds her arms and remains standing) 
PICARD: I'm afraid that you have misinterpreted our presence here. I
want to reassure you that we have no hostile intention. 
SELA: Ah. Then I can tell my superiors that a fleet of twenty three
Federation starships is on our border for, what, humanitarian reasons? 
PICARD: It is our intent to prevent any external power from interfering
in Klingon affairs. 
SELA: Nor do we have any plan to do so. But Captain, if for any reason
we chose to enter Klingon territory, how would you stop us? With our
cloaking devices we can slip by you at will. 
PICARD: Then why don't you just take your ships across? 
SELA: You sound eager for us to try. Perhaps you've discovered a method
in detecting our ships? However, I don't think you
asked me here to discuss our military situation. 
PICARD: All right. Why did I invite you here? 
SELA: You want the answer to the only question on your mind. How could
Tasha Yar be my mother? 
PICARD: It's been suggested that she was aboard the Enterprise C when
it was destroyed twenty four years ago, that she was one of the
survivors and that obviously you are a product of a union between her
and a Romulan. 
SELA: But you know that's impossible. She would have been a child when
that battle occurred. 
PICARD: And yet you claim that it is possible, that you're the daughter
of Tasha Yar. 
SELA: Yes, she was on that ship twenty four years ago. She was sent
there by you from the future. She was among those few who survived.
They were all to have been executed after the interrogation, but a
Romulan general saw her and became enamoured with her. So a deal was
struck. Their lives would be spared if she became his consort. I was
born a year later. 
PICARD: I want to meet your mother. Can you arrange that? 
SELA: One night, when I was four years old, she came to me. She bundled
me up and she told me to stay quiet as we left the compound. I realised
she was taking me away. She was taking me away from my home, my father,
so I cried out. My father offered her life.
He gave her a home, gave her a child, and how did she repay him? By
betrayal. They executed her. Everything in me that was human died that
day with my mother. All that's left is Romulan. Never doubt that. 
PICARD: Doubts? I'm full of them. But nothing in my experience can
persuade me that what you have told me is true. And I do know one
thing. It will not affect my judgment at our next encounter. 
SELA: You have fourteen hours, Captain. I suggest you use them wisely.

