TROI SELA [on viewscreen] PICARD SELA GUINAN O'BRIEN MOVAR CRUSHER
intuition value detection blockade sensed year command deploying happened

[Romulan command centre]

MOVAR: There's an increase in tachyon emissions
from the Federation fleet. 
SELA: They're using the beams as a detection field. 
MOVAR: If we try to cross it, they'll see us, even if we're cloaked. 
SELA: Issue orders to begin work on a way to penetrate this field. In
the meantime, we'll have to convince Captain Picard he should leave.

[Bridge]

O'BRIEN: Captain, I'm picking up something directly
ahead. Romulan ship decloaking. Shall I raise shields? 
PICARD: Not yet. 
O'BRIEN: They're hailing us, sir. 
PICARD: On screen. Tasha? 
SELA [on viewscreen]: No, Captain. I am Commander Sela. The woman you
knew as Tasha Yar was my mother. Deploying an invasion fleet along
our border is a clear act of aggression, Captain. It will not be
tolerated. You have twenty hours to recall your ships and
return peacefully to Federation territory.

[Observation lounge]

PICARD: So you believe her, Counsellor? 
TROI: I'm not saying we should accept her claim at face value, but I
sensed no deception from her. She really believes she is the daughter
of Tasha Yar. 
CRUSHER: Regardless of what she believes, Sela can't be her daughter.
I've reviewed all of Tasha's medical records, and there is no
indication that she was ever pregnant. 
PICARD: Besides, Tasha was a child when this woman was born. 
TROI: Sela could have been cloned. 
CRUSHER: Or had her appearance surgically altered. 
PICARD: But why? What possible advantage could there be to the
Romulans? As this now stands, I don't think this will have any impact
on our strategy. We'll continue the blockade, leave the next move to
them. Thank you. 
(Beverly and Deanna leave, then Guinan enters) 
GUINAN: Am I intruding? 
PICARD: No, not at all. Is something wrong? 
GUINAN: News travels fast. I heard that Tasha Yar's daughter is aboard
the Romulan ship. 
PICARD: I think that the Romulans are just hoping to create a
distraction. They want to keep us off balance. 
GUINAN: How much do you know about what happened to the last ship
called Enterprise? 
PICARD: Enterprise C? She was lost at the battle of Narendra Three,
defending a Klingon outpost from the Romulans. 
GUINAN: And the survivors? 
PICARD: There were stories of prisoners taken back to Romulus, but
these were only rumours. 
GUINAN: No. There were survivors. And Tasha Yar was one of them. 
PICARD: Guinan, that was twenty three years ago. Tasha Yar was only a
child. 
GUINAN: I know that. But I also know she was aboard that ship and she
was not a child. And I think you sent her there. 
PICARD: How can that be? 
GUINAN: I don't know. I just know that you did. 
PICARD: Tasha died, a year before you came on the Enterprise. You never
met her. 
GUINAN: I know that. 
PICARD: If you have only a vague intuition 
GUINAN: You can't just dismiss this. If I'm right, then you are
responsible for this whole situation. 
PICARD: I think that it's time I met Commander Sela.

