KURN percent. KURN RIKER WORF PICARD HELM SHANTHI
seven engines 45021 beam won pulls supplies ship border

 [Kurn's Bridge]

(they are under attack from two Klingon ships) 
KURN: Maintain course. Status of warp engines? Warp engines at fifty
percent. KURN: Status of shields? 
WORF: Aft shields buckling. 
KURN: Transfer auxiliary power to shields! 
WORF: Aft shields are gone! We cannot win. We must withdraw. 
KURN: Keep your place! New course. Three zero seven mark two seven
five. 
HELM: But sir, that takes us dangerously close to the 
KURN: GhoS! 
WORF: We are entering the star's corona. We will reach the photosphere
in thirty seconds. 
KURN: Stand by to enter warp on my command. Set course two five zero
mark zero one five. 
WORF: Shields failing. Outer hull temperature exceeding design limit.
Captain! 
KURN: Maintain course. 
WORF: They're closing on us! 
KURN: Stand by. DaH! 
(their entry into warp pulls a solar out which destroys one of their
pursuers)

Captain's log, stardate 45020.4. We have arrived at
Starbase two thirty four, where I have taken the opportunity to make a
proposal to Fleet Admiral Shanthi.

[Observation lounge]

PICARD: There have been three major engagements in
the last two weeks, all of them won by ships loyal to the Duras family.

SHANTHI: (a lady Admiral of African descent) None of which is our
concern, Jean-Luc. The Klingon civil war is, by definition, an internal
matter of the Empire. 
PICARD: Agreed. But if the Duras are being aided by the Romulans, it
becomes very much our concern. The Romulans have been attempting to
destroy the Klingon-Federation Alliance for the past twenty years. At
the same time, the Duras have been secretly conspiring with the
Romulans. Doesn't it strike you as odd that the Duras are able to field
such an overpowering force against Gowron? That they outmatch him at
almost every turn? 
SHANTHI: Some would call it good leadership. 
PICARD: And some would say they must be getting help. The Romulans are
prepared to take enormous risks to gain any advantage over the
Federation. Can we seriously believe that now, with the future of the
Klingon Empire in the balance, they are content to stand by and watch? 
SHANTHI: What is it you propose, Captain? 
PICARD: We must stop the flow of supplies and equipment to the Duras
from the Romulans. What I propose is that we send a fleet to the
Romulan-Klingon border. We'll take no offensive action, but we will be
in a position to expose any Romulan supplies that attempt to cross the
border. 
SHANTHI: A blockade. 
PICARD: Exactly. 
SHANTHI: But how would you overcome the Romulan cloaking device? 
PICARD: My Chief Engineer has developed a system that should nullify
that advantage. Each ship will send out an active tachyon beam to the
other blockading ships. Now, in theory, any cloaked vessel that
attempts to pass between our ships must cross that beam and be
detected. 
SHANTHI: I'll have to clear this with the Federation Council. In the
meantime, assemble your fleet, Captain. 
(Shanthi and her aide leave) 
RIKER: Nicely done. I hope we know what we're doing. 
PICARD: So do I, Number One.

Captain's log, stardate 45021.3. Convincing
Starfleet Command to establish a blockade was relatively painless.
Implementing that plan is proving more troublesome.

