PICARD SHANTHI DATA RIKER LAFORGE
enormous qualifies reassigned establish spacedock 45021 beam supplies border

[Observation lounge]

PICARD: There have been three major engagements in
the last two weeks, all of them won by ships loyal to the Duras family.

SHANTHI: (a lady Admiral of African descent) None of which is our
concern, Jean-Luc. The Klingon civil war is, by definition, an internal
matter of the Empire. 
PICARD: Agreed. But if the Duras are being aided by the Romulans, it
becomes very much our concern. The Romulans have been attempting to
destroy the Klingon-Federation Alliance for the past twenty years. At
the same time, the Duras have been secretly conspiring with the
Romulans. Doesn't it strike you as odd that the Duras are able to field
such an overpowering force against Gowron? That they outmatch him at
almost every turn? 
SHANTHI: Some would call it good leadership. 
PICARD: And some would say they must be getting help. The Romulans are
prepared to take enormous risks to gain any advantage over the
Federation. Can we seriously believe that now, with the future of the
Klingon Empire in the balance, they are content to stand by and watch? 
SHANTHI: What is it you propose, Captain? 
PICARD: We must stop the flow of supplies and equipment to the Duras
from the Romulans. What I propose is that we send a fleet to the
Romulan-Klingon border. We'll take no offensive action, but we will be
in a position to expose any Romulan supplies that attempt to cross the
border. 
SHANTHI: A blockade. 
PICARD: Exactly. 
SHANTHI: But how would you overcome the Romulan cloaking device? 
PICARD: My Chief Engineer has developed a system that should nullify
that advantage. Each ship will send out an active tachyon beam to the
other blockading ships. Now, in theory, any cloaked vessel that
attempts to pass between our ships must cross that beam and be
detected. 
SHANTHI: I'll have to clear this with the Federation Council. In the
meantime, assemble your fleet, Captain. 
(Shanthi and her aide leave) 
RIKER: Nicely done. I hope we know what we're doing. 
PICARD: So do I, Number One.

Captain's log, stardate 45021.3. Convincing
Starfleet Command to establish a blockade was relatively painless.
Implementing that plan is proving more troublesome.

[Ready room]

RIKER: Starfleet is stretched pretty thin across
the quadrant. There are only about twelve ships within a day's travel
of this position. 
LAFORGE: The only other ships available are either in spacedock for
repairs or still under construction. Most of them don't even have full
crews yet. 
RIKER: We could probably scare up seven, maybe eight, more ships. 
PICARD: Mister La Forge, can you implement your tachyon detection grid
with twenty ships? 
LAFORGE: It's possible, but the more ships, the bigger the net we can
throw. 
PICARD: All right. I want to add the Tian Nan Men, the Sutherland and
the Hermes, whether the yard superintendent says they're ready or not.
Mister Data, will you select a group of experienced Enterprise officers
to augment the crews of those ships. 
DATA: Aye, sir. 
PICARD: Will, I want you to command the Excalibur. Her crew was
reassigned when she put in for repairs. Geordi, you will be his First
Officer. 
LAFORGE: Aye, sir. 
PICARD: I want the fleet underway by oh nine hundred tomorrow. Thank
you, gentlemen. 
(Riker and La Forge leave) 
PICARD: Yes, Mister Data? 
DATA: May I ask a question, sir, of a personal nature? 
PICARD: Yes. 
DATA: I am confused. Why have I not been assigned to command a ship in
the fleet, sir? 
PICARD: Well, I felt that you would be needed here. Why do you ask? 
DATA: You have commented on the lack of senior officers available for
this mission. I believe my twenty six years of Starfleet service
qualifies me for such a post. However, if you do not believe the time
has arrived for an android to command a starship, perhaps I should
address myself to improving my 
PICARD: Commander. I believe the starship Sutherland will need a
captain. I can think of no one better suited to the task than
you.
DATA: Thank you, sir.

