GOWRON WORF PICARD SELA LURSA ROMULAN BETOR

[Observation lounge]

SELA: Well, Captain, what is this urgent matter we
need to discuss? 
PICARD: Please, won't you sit down? 
(she folds her arms and remains standing) 
PICARD: I'm afraid that you have misinterpreted our presence here. I
want to reassure you that we have no hostile intention. 
SELA: Ah. Then I can tell my superiors that a fleet of twenty three
Federation starships is on our border for, what, humanitarian reasons? 
PICARD: It is our intent to prevent any external power from interfering
in Klingon affairs. 
SELA: Nor do we have any plan to do so. But Captain, if for any reason
we chose to enter Klingon territory, how would you stop us? With our
cloaking devices we can slip by you at will. 
PICARD: Then why don't you just take your ships across? 
SELA: You sound eager for us to try. Perhaps you've discovered a method
in detecting our ships? However, I don't think you
asked me here to discuss our military situation. 
PICARD: All right. Why did I invite you here? 
SELA: You want the answer to the only question on your mind. How could
Tasha Yar be my mother? 
PICARD: It's been suggested that she was aboard the Enterprise C when
it was destroyed twenty four years ago, that she was one of the
survivors and that obviously you are a product of a union between her
and a Romulan. 
SELA: But you know that's impossible. She would have been a child when
that battle occurred. 
PICARD: And yet you claim that it is possible, that you're the daughter
of Tasha Yar. 
SELA: Yes, she was on that ship twenty four years ago. She was sent
there by you from the future. She was among those few who survived.
They were all to have been executed after the interrogation, but a
Romulan general saw her and became enamoured with her. So a deal was
struck. Their lives would be spared if she became his consort. I was
born a year later. 
PICARD: I want to meet your mother. Can you arrange that? 
SELA: One night, when I was four years old, she came to me. She bundled
me up and she told me to stay quiet as we left the compound. I realised
she was taking me away. She was taking me away from my home, my father,
so I cried out. My father offered her life.
He gave her a home, gave her a child, and how did she repay him? By
betrayal. They executed her. Everything in me that was human died that
day with my mother. All that's left is Romulan. Never doubt that. 
PICARD: Doubts? I'm full of them. But nothing in my experience can
persuade me that what you have told me is true. And I do know one
thing. It will not affect my judgment at our next encounter. 
SELA: You have fourteen hours, Captain. I suggest you use them wisely.

[Duras' home]

(Worf is snoring as B'Etor letches over him, then
he wakes) 
B'ETOR: Is something wrong? 
LURSA: Welcome, Worf, son of Mogh. 
WORF: What do you want? 
LURSA: The same as you. Personal honour. Glory for the Empire. 
WORF: Your family has never valued honour. 
B'ETOR: You knew only our brother. We are not like him. 
LURSA: Our brother made many mistakes. One was to make you an enemy. 
B'ETOR: We would rather be your friends. 
WORF: Then you should not have opposed Gowron. 
B'ETOR: Gowron is nothing. 
LURSA: Toral is Duras' only son, and he will be the leader of the
Council. In your heart, even you know that. But Toral needs guidance. 
B'ETOR: A firm hand. 
LURSA: A father figure. That could be you, if you were mated to B'Etor.

B'ETOR: The rewards could be greater than you can imagine. 
LURSA: Nothing will stand in our way. 
B'ETOR: We could rule the Empire together. 
LURSA: Join us, Worf, and usher in a new era for our people. 
WORF: An era where honour has no meaning? Where Klingons trade
loyalties in dark rooms and where the Empire is ruled from Romulus. 
SELA [on monitor]: Enough, Lursa. You failed. I need to know the
strength and capabilities of the Federation fleet. I don't have time
for this. Turn him over to the guard. B'Etor can have him back when
they've finished with him. 
ROMULAN: Come!

[Bridge]

PICARD: In thirteen hours we'll be forced to either
withdraw from the border or fight the Romulan fleet. Neither
alternative is acceptable. We must expose their involvement before the
deadline. 
GOWRON [on viewscreen]: What is it you propose? 
PICARD: If you launch a full-scale attack now, then the Duras fleet
will call for supplies. Lursa and B'Etor will call for help. The
Romulans will try to run the blockade, and we'll be ready for them. 
GOWRON [on viewscreen]: And once the Romulan connection has been
exposed, support will fall away from Lursa and B'Etor.
Very well. I will make preparations. One thing more, Picard. Worf has
been captured by the Duras. I hope he dies well. Qapla!

