PICARD OBRIEN DATA HOBSON CRAIG

[Bridge]

O'BRIEN: There's a disruption in the tachyon
detectors! It's localised to this segment of the net. 
PICARD: Open a channel to the Sutherland. 
DATA [OC]: Data here, sir. 
PICARD: We're reading a disruption of the tachyon net in your area. 
DATA [OC]: Yes, sir. The Romulans have released a high energy burst.
The net is no longer effective in a radius of ten million kilometres
around the Sutherland. 
PICARD: That's where they're going through. Send a signal to the fleet.
All ships to fall back and rendezvous at Gamma Eridon. We'll
re-establish the net there. 
O'BRIEN: Aye, sir.

[Sutherland Bridge]

HOBSON: All Federation ships proceed at maximum
warp to Gamma Eridon. 
DATA: Acknowledge the signal. Ensign, lay in the course and engage at
warp nine point three. 
CRAIG: Aye, sir. 
(Data goes to a science station and does a long range sensor scan) 
HOBSON: What are you doing? 
DATA: In disrupting the detection net, the Romulans may have caused a
residual tachyon signature to form around their own ships. 
HOBSON: But we have no way of detecting it. 
DATA: All stop. 
CRAIG: Aye, sir. All stop. 
HOBSON: Sir, the fleet's been ordered to Gamma Eridon. 
DATA: The tachyon signatures will not last long. By the time the fleet
is deployed, it will be too late. Begin to reconfigure the sensors to
detect ionised particle traces. 
HOBSON: The entire area's been flooded with tachyon particles. We'll
never be able to find what we're looking for. 
DATA: I am aware of the difficulties. Please bring the phasers back
online. 
HOBSON: That will flood three decks with radiation! 
DATA: We will initiate radiation protocol when necessary. 
HOBSON: You don't give a damn about the people whose lives you're
throwing away. We're not just machines 
DATA: Mister Hobson! You will carry out my orders or I will relieve you
of duty. 
HOBSON: Yes, sir.

[Bridge]

O'BRIEN: Captain, the Sutherland isn't heading for
the rendezvous point. She's come to a full stop. 
PICARD: Open a channel.

[Sutherland Bridge]

HOBSON: The Enterprise wants to know the reason
we've stopped. 
DATA: Display sensor schematic. Display sensor sweep, maximum range. 
HOBSON: Are you going to answer the Enterprise? 
DATA: Overlay display with tachyon emissions. Highlight any tachyon
signatures which show subspace inertial displacement. Concentrate a
sensor sweep in that area. 
(four targets emerge) 
HOBSON: Sir, this is pointless. Those readings could be anything.
There's no way for us to be sure the Romulans are out there. 
DATA: Reconfigure photon torpedo warhead yields. Set for high energy
burst level six. 
HOBSON: Level six? But that won't even 
DATA: Do it! 
HOBSON: Torpedoes ready. Another message coming in. It's Captain
Picard! 
PICARD [OC]: Mister Data, you were ordered to rendezvous with the fleet
at Gamma Eridon. Acknowledge. 
DATA: Stand by, Captain. Mister Hobson, prepare to fire. 
HOBSON: Didn't you hear? Captain Picard wants us 
DATA: Fire. Fire! 
(and three green meanies are briefly illuminated)

