PICARD [OC] KURN B'ETOR TORAL SELA LURSA MOVAR DATA HOBSON
briefly affected illuminated tachyon going highlight changing main gowron

[Sutherland Bridge]

HOBSON: The Enterprise wants to know the reason
we've stopped. 
DATA: Display sensor schematic. Display sensor sweep, maximum range. 
HOBSON: Are you going to answer the Enterprise? 
DATA: Overlay display with tachyon emissions. Highlight any tachyon
signatures which show subspace inertial displacement. Concentrate a
sensor sweep in that area. 
(four targets emerge) 
HOBSON: Sir, this is pointless. Those readings could be anything.
There's no way for us to be sure the Romulans are out there. 
DATA: Reconfigure photon torpedo warhead yields. Set for high energy
burst level six. 
HOBSON: Level six? But that won't even 
DATA: Do it! 
HOBSON: Torpedoes ready. Another message coming in. It's Captain
Picard! 
PICARD [OC]: Mister Data, you were ordered to rendezvous with the fleet
at Gamma Eridon. Acknowledge. 
DATA: Stand by, Captain. Mister Hobson, prepare to fire. 
HOBSON: Didn't you hear? Captain Picard wants us 
DATA: Fire. Fire! 
(and three green meanies are briefly illuminated)

[Romulan command centre]

MOVAR: They have discovered us! 
SELA: Reverse course. Order the fleet back to Romulan territory. 
MOVAR: Commander, the Duras need this convoy. Without these supplies,
they cannot win. 
SELA: We've been exposed. It's over. 
MOVAR: But what should I tell Lursa and B'Etor? 
SELA: Tell them they're on their own.

[Sutherland Bridge]

HOBSON: They're changing course, heading back to
Romulan space. 
DATA: Make a full report to the flagship. Take the main phasers offline
and begin radiation clean up on the affected decks. 
HOBSON: Yes, sir, Captain.

[Duras' home]

(weapons are raining down on the complex, which is
in flames)
B'ETOR: Defeat. 
TORAL: How? Where are the Romulans? 
LURSA: They never came. 
(Worf is dragged in by his Romulan guard) 
LURSA: Kill him. 
(but Worf fights the Romulan as Lursa and B'Etor have themselves beamed
to safety) 
TORAL: No! 
(Worf defeats the Romulan as his brother arrives) 
KURN: Toral, the next Leader of the Empire. Gowron is looking forward
to seeing you again.

Captain's personal log, stardate 45025.4. It is
with a profound sense of relief that I have ordered the fleet back to
Federation territory following the Romulan withdrawal and the news of
Gowron's victory. We have arrived at the Klingon home world, where I
will present the High Council with a full report on our encounter with
the Romulans. 
