KURN TROI SELA [on viewscreen] WORF PICARD GUINAN O'BRIEN CRUSHER
ago sir claim clear uniform leave klingons balance called

[Bridge]

O'BRIEN: Captain, I'm picking up something directly
ahead. Romulan ship decloaking. Shall I raise shields? 
PICARD: Not yet. 
O'BRIEN: They're hailing us, sir. 
PICARD: On screen. Tasha? 
SELA [on viewscreen]: No, Captain. I am Commander Sela. The woman you
knew as Tasha Yar was my mother. Deploying an invasion fleet along
our border is a clear act of aggression, Captain. It will not be
tolerated. You have twenty hours to recall your ships and
return peacefully to Federation territory.

[Observation lounge]

PICARD: So you believe her, Counsellor? 
TROI: I'm not saying we should accept her claim at face value, but I
sensed no deception from her. She really believes she is the daughter
of Tasha Yar. 
CRUSHER: Regardless of what she believes, Sela can't be her daughter.
I've reviewed all of Tasha's medical records, and there is no
indication that she was ever pregnant. 
PICARD: Besides, Tasha was a child when this woman was born. 
TROI: Sela could have been cloned. 
CRUSHER: Or had her appearance surgically altered. 
PICARD: But why? What possible advantage could there be to the
Romulans? As this now stands, I don't think this will have any impact
on our strategy. We'll continue the blockade, leave the next move to
them. Thank you. 
(Beverly and Deanna leave, then Guinan enters) 
GUINAN: Am I intruding? 
PICARD: No, not at all. Is something wrong? 
GUINAN: News travels fast. I heard that Tasha Yar's daughter is aboard
the Romulan ship. 
PICARD: I think that the Romulans are just hoping to create a
distraction. They want to keep us off balance. 
GUINAN: How much do you know about what happened to the last ship
called Enterprise? 
PICARD: Enterprise C? She was lost at the battle of Narendra Three,
defending a Klingon outpost from the Romulans. 
GUINAN: And the survivors? 
PICARD: There were stories of prisoners taken back to Romulus, but
these were only rumours. 
GUINAN: No. There were survivors. And Tasha Yar was one of them. 
PICARD: Guinan, that was twenty three years ago. Tasha Yar was only a
child. 
GUINAN: I know that. But I also know she was aboard that ship and she
was not a child. And I think you sent her there. 
PICARD: How can that be? 
GUINAN: I don't know. I just know that you did. 
PICARD: Tasha died, a year before you came on the Enterprise. You never
met her. 
GUINAN: I know that. 
PICARD: If you have only a vague intuition 
GUINAN: You can't just dismiss this. If I'm right, then you are
responsible for this whole situation. 
PICARD: I think that it's time I met Commander Sela.

[Klingon bar]

WORF: We are at war. Gowron should forbid any
challenges until we are victorious. 
KURN: A Klingon does not postpone a matter of honour. 
WORF: A Klingon should place the good of the Empire above his own
pride. 
KURN: So now Gowron no longer suits you. Perhaps you mean to challenge
him for the leadership of the Council? 
WORF: No. 
KURN: Then do not speak of this again! I did not wish to follow Gowron.
You came to me and insisted we support Gowron against the Duras family.
The time for debate is over. We are Klingons. He is our leader. If that
is not enough for you, then perhaps you made the wrong choice when you
put on that uniform. 
(Kurn leaves, and two Klingons attack Worf, knocking him out and
dragging him away)

