RIKER B'ETOR WORF PICARD LURSA SELA [on monitor] ROMULAN GOWRON [on viewscreen]
help akagi toral acceptable rule guard letches alternative friends

[Duras' home]

(Worf is snoring as B'Etor letches over him, then
he wakes) 
B'ETOR: Is something wrong? 
LURSA: Welcome, Worf, son of Mogh. 
WORF: What do you want? 
LURSA: The same as you. Personal honour. Glory for the Empire. 
WORF: Your family has never valued honour. 
B'ETOR: You knew only our brother. We are not like him. 
LURSA: Our brother made many mistakes. One was to make you an enemy. 
B'ETOR: We would rather be your friends. 
WORF: Then you should not have opposed Gowron. 
B'ETOR: Gowron is nothing. 
LURSA: Toral is Duras' only son, and he will be the leader of the
Council. In your heart, even you know that. But Toral needs guidance. 
B'ETOR: A firm hand. 
LURSA: A father figure. That could be you, if you were mated to B'Etor.

B'ETOR: The rewards could be greater than you can imagine. 
LURSA: Nothing will stand in our way. 
B'ETOR: We could rule the Empire together. 
LURSA: Join us, Worf, and usher in a new era for our people. 
WORF: An era where honour has no meaning? Where Klingons trade
loyalties in dark rooms and where the Empire is ruled from Romulus. 
SELA [on monitor]: Enough, Lursa. You failed. I need to know the
strength and capabilities of the Federation fleet. I don't have time
for this. Turn him over to the guard. B'Etor can have him back when
they've finished with him. 
ROMULAN: Come!

[Bridge]

PICARD: In thirteen hours we'll be forced to either
withdraw from the border or fight the Romulan fleet. Neither
alternative is acceptable. We must expose their involvement before the
deadline. 
GOWRON [on viewscreen]: What is it you propose? 
PICARD: If you launch a full-scale attack now, then the Duras fleet
will call for supplies. Lursa and B'Etor will call for help. The
Romulans will try to run the blockade, and we'll be ready for them. 
GOWRON [on viewscreen]: And once the Romulan connection has been
exposed, support will fall away from Lursa and B'Etor.
Very well. I will make preparations. One thing more, Picard. Worf has
been captured by the Duras. I hope he dies well. Qapla!

[Ready room]

PICARD: When Gowron begins his attack, then we will
make our move. Excalibur will fall back with engine problems. You will
take the Akagi and the Hornet to this position, which will open a small
gap in our detection net. 
RIKER: And if the Romulans are already aware of the tachyon field, they
should run the blockade at that point. 
PICARD: Exactly. When they try to bring their ships through, the
Enterprise and the Tian Nan Men will swing around, close the gap and
catch them in the act. 
RIKER: Very nice. I'd better get back. 
PICARD: Good luck, Will. 
RIKER: Good luck, Captain.

