KURN RIKER B'ETOR LAFORGE WORF PICARD LARG LURSA DATA
shoulder needs proceeding just lack seven victory officer ta

[Ready room]

RIKER: Starfleet is stretched pretty thin across
the quadrant. There are only about twelve ships within a day's travel
of this position. 
LAFORGE: The only other ships available are either in spacedock for
repairs or still under construction. Most of them don't even have full
crews yet. 
RIKER: We could probably scare up seven, maybe eight, more ships. 
PICARD: Mister La Forge, can you implement your tachyon detection grid
with twenty ships? 
LAFORGE: It's possible, but the more ships, the bigger the net we can
throw. 
PICARD: All right. I want to add the Tian Nan Men, the Sutherland and
the Hermes, whether the yard superintendent says they're ready or not.
Mister Data, will you select a group of experienced Enterprise officers
to augment the crews of those ships. 
DATA: Aye, sir. 
PICARD: Will, I want you to command the Excalibur. Her crew was
reassigned when she put in for repairs. Geordi, you will be his First
Officer. 
LAFORGE: Aye, sir. 
PICARD: I want the fleet underway by oh nine hundred tomorrow. Thank
you, gentlemen. 
(Riker and La Forge leave) 
PICARD: Yes, Mister Data? 
DATA: May I ask a question, sir, of a personal nature? 
PICARD: Yes. 
DATA: I am confused. Why have I not been assigned to command a ship in
the fleet, sir? 
PICARD: Well, I felt that you would be needed here. Why do you ask? 
DATA: You have commented on the lack of senior officers available for
this mission. I believe my twenty six years of Starfleet service
qualifies me for such a post. However, if you do not believe the time
has arrived for an android to command a starship, perhaps I should
address myself to improving my 
PICARD: Commander. I believe the starship Sutherland will need a
captain. I can think of no one better suited to the task than
you.
DATA: Thank you, sir.

[Klingon bar]

(fun seems to involve butting boney foreheads
together or just trading punches. Arm wresting is made more interesting
with the threat of the loser's hand being impaled on a dagger) 
KURN: You always did have fools working for you, Larg. Now you don't
have as many! 
LARG: You were lucky, Kurn, but luck always runs out. Someday I will
stand over your broken corpse and drink to the victory of the Duras! 
KURN: Ah, Worf, good. This piece of baktag is Captain Larg. He
commanded the squadron that tried to destroy us yesterday. 
LARG: The infamous Worf, son of Mogh. What is that you are wearing?
That is the uniform of a Klingon! 
KURN: The Capital City is neutral ground and Larg's men are all around
us. As are mine. 
LARG: Good to drink with you, Kurn. May you die well. 
KURN: Die well, Larg. 
(Larg leaves) 
WORF: You drink with our enemies? 
KURN: How many are Gowron's men? How many are Duras? Does it matter?
When we meet in battle, we will fight to the death, but here, here
we're all warriors, all Klingons. 
WORF: The repairs to the Hegh'ta are proceeding. The port stabilisers 
KURN: Is there nothing in your heart but duty? 
WORF: It is my responsibility. 
KURN: We all have responsibilities and duties, But you and I are
warriors fighting in a great war. Think of it. You and I will fight
battles that others can only dream of. The time for glory is here. It
is not a time to worry about stabilisers. It is a time to celebrate,
for tomorrow we all may die! Come, let us, the sons of Mogh, live this
night as if it were our last. 
(Worf tosses the PADD over his shoulder and joins in) 
B'ETOR: Worf is not like his brother. 
LURSA: No. He tries to be, but he's still unsure of himself. 
B'ETOR: Perhaps he needs something to help restore his confidence. 
LURSA: I think he'll find our offer appealing. 
B'ETOR: I'll make sure he does.

