OBRIEN PICARD SELA CRAIG DATA HOBSON

[Romulan command centre]

SELA: Now. 
(the beam fires at the Sutherland) 
SELA: Come to course zero eight zero mark two nine five.

[Bridge]

O'BRIEN: There's a disruption in the tachyon
detectors! It's localised to this segment of the net. 
PICARD: Open a channel to the Sutherland. 
DATA [OC]: Data here, sir. 
PICARD: We're reading a disruption of the tachyon net in your area. 
DATA [OC]: Yes, sir. The Romulans have released a high energy burst.
The net is no longer effective in a radius of ten million kilometres
around the Sutherland. 
PICARD: That's where they're going through. Send a signal to the fleet.
All ships to fall back and rendezvous at Gamma Eridon. We'll
re-establish the net there. 
O'BRIEN: Aye, sir.

[Sutherland Bridge]

HOBSON: All Federation ships proceed at maximum
warp to Gamma Eridon. 
DATA: Acknowledge the signal. Ensign, lay in the course and engage at
warp nine point three. 
CRAIG: Aye, sir. 
(Data goes to a science station and does a long range sensor scan) 
HOBSON: What are you doing? 
DATA: In disrupting the detection net, the Romulans may have caused a
residual tachyon signature to form around their own ships. 
HOBSON: But we have no way of detecting it. 
DATA: All stop. 
CRAIG: Aye, sir. All stop. 
HOBSON: Sir, the fleet's been ordered to Gamma Eridon. 
DATA: The tachyon signatures will not last long. By the time the fleet
is deployed, it will be too late. Begin to reconfigure the sensors to
detect ionised particle traces. 
HOBSON: The entire area's been flooded with tachyon particles. We'll
never be able to find what we're looking for. 
DATA: I am aware of the difficulties. Please bring the phasers back
online. 
HOBSON: That will flood three decks with radiation! 
DATA: We will initiate radiation protocol when necessary. 
HOBSON: You don't give a damn about the people whose lives you're
throwing away. We're not just machines 
DATA: Mister Hobson! You will carry out my orders or I will relieve you
of duty. 
HOBSON: Yes, sir.

[Bridge]

O'BRIEN: Captain, the Sutherland isn't heading for
the rendezvous point. She's come to a full stop. 
PICARD: Open a channel.

