KURN WORF LARG LURSA HOBSON DATA BETOR

[Klingon bar]

(fun seems to involve butting boney foreheads
together or just trading punches. Arm wresting is made more interesting
with the threat of the loser's hand being impaled on a dagger) 
KURN: You always did have fools working for you, Larg. Now you don't
have as many! 
LARG: You were lucky, Kurn, but luck always runs out. Someday I will
stand over your broken corpse and drink to the victory of the Duras! 
KURN: Ah, Worf, good. This piece of baktag is Captain Larg. He
commanded the squadron that tried to destroy us yesterday. 
LARG: The infamous Worf, son of Mogh. What is that you are wearing?
That is the uniform of a Klingon! 
KURN: The Capital City is neutral ground and Larg's men are all around
us. As are mine. 
LARG: Good to drink with you, Kurn. May you die well. 
KURN: Die well, Larg. 
(Larg leaves) 
WORF: You drink with our enemies? 
KURN: How many are Gowron's men? How many are Duras? Does it matter?
When we meet in battle, we will fight to the death, but here, here
we're all warriors, all Klingons. 
WORF: The repairs to the Hegh'ta are proceeding. The port stabilisers 
KURN: Is there nothing in your heart but duty? 
WORF: It is my responsibility. 
KURN: We all have responsibilities and duties, But you and I are
warriors fighting in a great war. Think of it. You and I will fight
battles that others can only dream of. The time for glory is here. It
is not a time to worry about stabilisers. It is a time to celebrate,
for tomorrow we all may die! Come, let us, the sons of Mogh, live this
night as if it were our last. 
(Worf tosses the PADD over his shoulder and joins in) 
B'ETOR: Worf is not like his brother. 
LURSA: No. He tries to be, but he's still unsure of himself. 
B'ETOR: Perhaps he needs something to help restore his confidence. 
LURSA: I think he'll find our offer appealing. 
B'ETOR: I'll make sure he does.

[Sutherland Bridge]

HOBSON: You've got to keep this mixture above
ninety percent or we'll never leave orbit. Thank you, Mister Krags. 
(Data enters) 
DATA: I am Lieutenant Commander Data. 
HOBSON: Lieutenant Commander Christopher Hobson. 
DATA: By order of Starfleet, I hereby take command of this vessel.
Please note the time and date in the ship's log. 
HOBSON: Excuse me, sir. I'd like to request a transfer. 
DATA: May I ask why? 
HOBSON: I don't believe I'd be a good first officer for you. 
DATA: Your service record to date suggests that you would perform that
function adequately. 
HOBSON: No, no, no, that's not what I mean. I don't think that I would
be a good first officer for you. 
DATA: Why? 
HOBSON: Frankly, sir, I don't believe in your ability to command this
ship. You're a fellow officer and I respect that, but no one would
suggest that a Klingon would make a good ship's counsellor or that a
Berellian could be an engineer. They're just not suited for those
positions. By the same token, I don't think an android is a good choice
to be captain. 
DATA: I understand your concerns. Request denied.

