TROI LAFORGE WORF PICARD RIKER TAMARIAN COMPUTER DATA DATHON

[Bridge]

RIKER: Enough to turn them back, but not enough to
hurt them. 
DATA: Yes, sir. The phaser pulse appears to have been carefully
attenuated for just that effect. 
RIKER: Nice shooting.

[Observation lounge]

(Atmospheric ionisation scan 927 is on the wall
monitor) 
LAFORGE: I'm pretty sure I can punch up the annular confinement beam
enough to transport the captain through the field, but it's going to
take me at least a full day to do it. 
TROI: Captain Picard could be dead by then. 
WORF: I do not believe so. I have confidence in his ability as a
warrior. He will be victorious. 
TROI: You're still assuming this is some sort of a challenge ritual. We
can't be certain of that. 
RIKER: Agreed. We're only making educated guesses about their
motivations, no more than that. 
WORF: Then why do we wait? If we attack the ship now, they will not be
able to maintain their scattering field. 
RIKER: Which might start a shooting match, and for all we know, a war,
and we still might not be able to save the captain. 
WORF: It would end this stalemate. 
RIKER: It's too much of a risk. I'll take that course when it's the
last one left. Who the hell are these people?
There's got to be some way to get through to them. 
DATA: As I have said, with further study it may be possible 
RIKER: Then do it. Deanna, help him. I want something by oh nine
hundred hours.

[Planet surface]

(Daytime, and the birds are singing again) 
PICARD: Now, where have you gone to, my friend? 
(Picard strolls over to Dathon's camp site) 
PICARD: Forgive the intrusion, Captain, but I need some answers. 
(he finds what looks like a journal, and sits down to read)

[Data's quarters]

DATHON [on monitor]: Darmok at Tanagra. 
TAMARIAN [on monitor]: Shaka! Mirab, his sails unfurled. 
DATHON [on monitor]: Darmok. 
TAMARIAN [on monitor]: Mirab. 
DATA: Freeze. Darmok. 
TROI: Darmok. Well, it seems to be a point of contention between them.
Perhaps something the Tamarian captain proposed that the First Officer
didn't like. 
DATA: The apparent emotional dynamic does seem to support that
assumption. As with the other terms used by the Tamarian, this appears
to be a proper noun. The name clearly carries a meaning for them. 
TROI: Computer, search for the term Darmok in all linguistic databases
for this sector. 
COMPUTER: Searching. Darmok is the name of a seventh dynasty emperor on
Kanda Four. A mytho-historical hunter on Shantil Three. A colony on
Malindi Seven. A frozen dessert on Tazna Five. A 
TROI: Stop search. Computer, how many entries are there for Darmok? 
COMPUTER: Forty seven. 
TROI: All our technology and experience, our universal translator, our
years in space, contacts with more alien cultures than I can even
remember. 
DATA: I have encountered one thousand, seven hundred fifty four
non-human races during my tenure with Starfleet. 
TROI: And we still can't even say hello to these people. 
DATA: Correct. 
TROI: A single word can lead to tragedy. One word misspoken or
misunderstood. And that could happen here, Data, if we fail. 
DATA: Replay at time index one four four. 
DATHON [on monitor]: Darmok at Tanagra. 
DATA: Freeze. Computer, search for the term Tanagra. All databases. 
COMPUTER: Searching. Tanagra. The ruling family on Gallos Two. A
ceremonial drink on Lerishi Four. An island-continent on Shantil Three 
TROI: Stop. Shantil Three. Computer, cross-reference the last entry
with the previous search index. 
COMPUTER: Darmok is the name of a mytho-historical hunter on Shantil
Three. 
TROI: I think we've got something.

[Planet surface]

PICARD: A captain's log? 
DATHON: Darmok! 
(Dathon comes running back) 
DATHON: Darmok and Jalad at Tanagra! 
PICARD: I was curious. I meant no harm. 
(Dathon pushes the journal out of Picard's hand) 
DATHON: Shaka! Temba! His arms wide. Temba. 
(Dathon tries to give Picard the dagger) 
PICARD: Enough! I'm not going to fight you. You'll just have to 
(something big roars nearby) 
DATHON: Darmok and Jalad at Tanagra. 
(they look around, and rocks tumble down a hillside. Dathon offers the
dagger again) 
DATHON: Temba. His arms wide. 
(Picard takes the dagger) 
PICARD: I'll go along with that.

[Bridge]

WORF: Commander, sensors are picking up an
electromagnetic disturbance approaching the Captain's position. 
RIKER: Analysis? 
WORF: A variable induction field. Possibly a life form. 
RIKER: How close is it to the Captain? 
WORF: The field is erratic, appearing and disappearing, but it appears
to be moving toward him. 
RIKER: Attacking?

[Engineering]

RIKER [OC]: Riker to La Forge. 
LAFORGE: La Forge here. 
RIKER [OC]: How close are we on that transporter? 
LAFORGE: Two hours, maybe three. 
RIKER [OC]: I want the Captain out of there now. 
LAFORGE: That's not very likely, sir. 
