TROI OBRIEN LAFORGE WORF PICARD RIKER TAMARIAN DATA CRUSHER DATHON

[Transporter room]

O'BRIEN: The field's still deflecting the signal.
There just isn't enough of him, sir.

[Bridge]

RIKER: Open a channel to the Tamarian ship. 
WORF: Aye, sir. 
RIKER: Your captain is under attack. Drop your particle field. 
TAMARIAN [on viewscreen]: Kailash. When it rises. 
WORF: They have closed the channel. 
O'BRIEN [OC]: O'Brien to Bridge.

[Transporter room]

O'BRIEN: I can't hold him, Commander.

[Planet surface]

(the creature leaves and Picard runs over to
Dathon) 
DATHON: Shaka. 
PICARD: when the walls fell.

First Officer's log, stardate 45048.8. Our attempt
to transport Captain Picard back to the ship has failed. My options are
narrowing and my patience is all but gone.

[Observation lounge]

RIKER: Here's the situation on El-Adrel. The entity
has moved off several hundred metres. 
CRUSHER: Captain Picard's bioscan readings are stable. The Tamarian's
are not. 
TROI: He may be injured. 
RIKER: If the entity decides to attack again, the Captain may be facing
it alone. 
LAFORGE: The transporter's out of the question. The Tamarian ship has
deepened the scattering field to the D region of the ionosphere.
There's no getting through. 
WORF: Unless we attack the ship itself. 
RIKER: Are you able to pinpoint the source of their particle beam? 
LAFORGE: They're using a polarity coil generator located aft of their
warp drive. It's pretty heavily shielded. 
RIKER: Could we get through with our phasers? 
LAFORGE: Not with the first spread. It'd take a couple of hits. 
RIKER: That's not good enough. We need to knock out the scattering
field in one shot and have the Captain back on the Enterprise before
they know what happened. 
LAFORGE: If we selectively target the amplification pathways around the
generator, it should be just as effective. And we can do it in one
burst. 
RIKER: How long will it take to set up? 
LAFORGE: Worf and I would have to adjust the pre-fire chamber. That'll
give us the focus we need. A few hours? 
RIKER: Make it so. 
(Geordi and Worf leave) 
RIKER: I would prefer to find a peaceful solution. If we could talk our
way out of this one, that much the better. 
TROI: Unfortunately, it may not be that simple. 
RIKER: What did you find out? 
DATA: The Tamarian ego structure does not seem to allow what we
normally think of as self-identity. Their ability to abstract is highly
unusual. They seem to communicate through narrative imagery by
reference to the individuals and places which appear in their
mytho-historical accounts. 
TROI: It's as if I were to say to you, Juliet on her balcony. 
CRUSHER: An image of romance. 
TROI: Exactly. Imagery is everything to the Tamarians. It embodies
their emotional states, their very thought processes. It's how they
communicate, and it's how they think. 
RIKER: If we know how they think, shouldn't we be able to get something
across to them? 
DATA: No, sir. The situation is analogous to understanding the grammar
of a language but none of the vocabulary. 
CRUSHER: If I didn't know who Juliet was or what she was doing on that
balcony, the image alone wouldn't have any meaning. 
TROI: That's correct. For instance, we know that Darmok was a great
hero, a hunter, and that Tanagra was an island, but that's it. Without
the details, there's no understanding. 
DATA: It is necessary for us to learn the narrative from which the
Tamarians drawing their imagery. Given our current relations, that does
not appear likely.

[Planet surface]

(night has fallen, a fire is lit and Dathon is
lying down) 
DATHON: Darmok and Jalad at Tanagra. 
PICARD: Our situation is similar to theirs. I understand that. But I
need to know more. You must tell me more about Darmok and Jalad. Tell
me. You used the words, 'Temba, his arms wide' when you gave me the
knife and the fire. Could that mean give? Temba, his arms wide. Darmok.
Give me more about Darmok. 
DATHON: Darmok on the ocean. 
PICARD: Darmok. (draws on the soil) The ocean. Darmok on the ocean. A
metaphor? For being alone? Isolated? Darmok on the ocean. 
(Dathon writhes in pain) 
PICARD: Are you alright? 
DATHON: Kiazi's children, their faces wet. 
PICARD: Temba, his arms open. Give me more about Darmok on the ocean. 
DATHON: Tanagra on the ocean. Darmok at Tanagra. 
PICARD: At Tanagra. A country? Tanagra on the ocean. An island. Temba,
his arms wide. 
DATHON: Jalad on the ocean. Jalad at Tanagra. 
PICARD: Jalad at Tanagra. He went to the same island as Darmok. Darmok
and Jalad Tanagra. 
DATHON: The beast at Tanagra. 
PICARD: The beast? There was a creature at Tanagra? Darmok and Jalad,
the beast of Tanagra. They arrived separately. They struggled together
against a common foe, the beast at Tanagra. Darmok and Jalad at
Tanagra. 
DATHON: Darmok and Jalad on the ocean. 
PICARD: They left together. Darmok and Jalad on the ocean. 
DATHON: The ocean. (another spasm) Zinda! His face black, his eyes red.
Callimas at Bahar. 
PICARD: You hoped this would happen, didn't you? You knew there was a
dangerous creature on this planet and you knew from the tale of Darmok
that a danger shared might sometimes bring two people together. Darmok
and Jalad at Tanagra. You and me, here, at El-Adrel. 
DATHON: Kira at Bashi. Temba, his arms wide. 
PICARD: My turn? No, I'm not much of a story teller. Besides, you
wouldn't understand. Shaka. when the walls fell. Perhaps that doesn't
matter. You want to hear it anyway. There's a story, a very ancient
one, from Earth. I'll try and remember it. Gilgamesh, a king.
Gilgamesh, a king, at Uruk. He tormented his subjects. He made them
angry. They cried out aloud, send us a companion for our king. Spare us
from his madness. Enkidu, a wild man from the forest, entered the city.
They fought in the temple. They fought in the street. Gilgamesh
defeated Enkidu. They became great friends. Gilgamesh and Enkidu at
Uruk. 
DATHON: At Uruk. 
PICARD: The new friends went out into the desert together, where the
great bull of heaven was killing men by the hundreds. Enkidu caught the
bull by the tail. Gilgamesh struck it with his sword. 
DATHON: Gilgamesh. 
PICARD: They were victorious. But Enkidu fell to the ground, struck
down by the gods. And Gilgamesh wept bitter tears, saying, 'he who was
my companion through adventure and hardship, is gone forever. 
(and so Dathon dies)

First Officer's log, supplemental. Despite the risk
of war, I have no choice but to break the stalemate. 
[Bridge]

WORF: Phasers nearly ready, sir. 
RIKER: Stand by to fire, Mister Worf. 
DATA: Commander. The Tamarian's bioscan is becoming unreadable. He may
be dead, sir. 
RIKER: If we know that, so do the Tamarians. Riker to La Forge. 
LAFORGE [OC]: La Forge here. 
RIKER: I need those phasers. 
DATA: Sir, sensors are tracking the entity. It is approaching Captain
Picard's position.

[Planet surface]

(Picard has laid out Dathon, with his dagger, when
he hears the beast roar) 
PICARD: I understand your sacrifice, Captain. Unfortunately, if our
friend out there has its way, no one will ever know what you tried to
do.

