TROI OBRIEN LAFORGE WORF PICARD DATHON RIKER LEFLER TAMARIAN CRUSHER DATA

[Engineering]

LEFLER: One fifty seven over standard. 
LAFORGE: It's as solid as it'll go, Commander.

[Planet surface]

(Dathon is being thrown around and battered to a
pulp while Picard flickers) 
[Bridge]

WORF: The Tamarian and the entity are in close
proximity. The Tamarian's lifesigns are fluctuating. 
RIKER: The scattering field is still in full force. What the hell is
wrong with them? Their sensors can read what's going on as well as ours
can. Riker to O'Brien. Report.

[Transporter room]

O'BRIEN: The field's still deflecting the signal.
There just isn't enough of him, sir.

[Bridge]

RIKER: Open a channel to the Tamarian ship. 
WORF: Aye, sir. 
RIKER: Your captain is under attack. Drop your particle field. 
TAMARIAN [on viewscreen]: Kailash. When it rises. 
WORF: They have closed the channel. 
O'BRIEN [OC]: O'Brien to Bridge.

[Transporter room]

O'BRIEN: I can't hold him, Commander.

[Planet surface]

(the creature leaves and Picard runs over to
Dathon) 
DATHON: Shaka. 
PICARD: when the walls fell.

First Officer's log, stardate 45048.8. Our attempt
to transport Captain Picard back to the ship has failed. My options are
narrowing and my patience is all but gone.

[Observation lounge]

RIKER: Here's the situation on El-Adrel. The entity
has moved off several hundred metres. 
CRUSHER: Captain Picard's bioscan readings are stable. The Tamarian's
are not. 
TROI: He may be injured. 
RIKER: If the entity decides to attack again, the Captain may be facing
it alone. 
LAFORGE: The transporter's out of the question. The Tamarian ship has
deepened the scattering field to the D region of the ionosphere.
There's no getting through. 
WORF: Unless we attack the ship itself. 
RIKER: Are you able to pinpoint the source of their particle beam? 
LAFORGE: They're using a polarity coil generator located aft of their
warp drive. It's pretty heavily shielded. 
RIKER: Could we get through with our phasers? 
LAFORGE: Not with the first spread. It'd take a couple of hits. 
RIKER: That's not good enough. We need to knock out the scattering
field in one shot and have the Captain back on the Enterprise before
they know what happened. 
LAFORGE: If we selectively target the amplification pathways around the
generator, it should be just as effective. And we can do it in one
burst. 
RIKER: How long will it take to set up? 
LAFORGE: Worf and I would have to adjust the pre-fire chamber. That'll
give us the focus we need. A few hours? 
RIKER: Make it so. 
(Geordi and Worf leave) 
RIKER: I would prefer to find a peaceful solution. If we could talk our
way out of this one, that much the better. 
TROI: Unfortunately, it may not be that simple. 
RIKER: What did you find out? 
DATA: The Tamarian ego structure does not seem to allow what we
normally think of as self-identity. Their ability to abstract is highly
unusual. They seem to communicate through narrative imagery by
reference to the individuals and places which appear in their
mytho-historical accounts. 
TROI: It's as if I were to say to you, Juliet on her balcony. 
CRUSHER: An image of romance. 
TROI: Exactly. Imagery is everything to the Tamarians. It embodies
their emotional states, their very thought processes. It's how they
communicate, and it's how they think. 
RIKER: If we know how they think, shouldn't we be able to get something
across to them? 
DATA: No, sir. The situation is analogous to understanding the grammar
of a language but none of the vocabulary. 
CRUSHER: If I didn't know who Juliet was or what she was doing on that
balcony, the image alone wouldn't have any meaning. 
TROI: That's correct. For instance, we know that Darmok was a great
hero, a hunter, and that Tanagra was an island, but that's it. Without
the details, there's no understanding. 
DATA: It is necessary for us to learn the narrative from which the
Tamarians drawing their imagery. Given our current relations, that does
not appear likely.

