TROI WORF PICARD BAJORAN GUINAN RO DATA ORTA
cardassian just terrorists vocal quarters targets reason authorisation tell

[Moon caves]

DATA: I am picking up molecular displacement
traces. That suggests movement through this area during the last ten
hours. 
PICARD: See if we can determine their direction. Standard search
pattern. 
WORF: Maintain tricorder security link. 
PICARD: Mister Worf, you come with me. 
TROI: Data, I'm picking up energy fluctuations over here. Troi to
Picard. Captain, acknowledge. 
DATA: Data to Picard. Data to Worf. 
(Data and Troi go off in the same direction as Worf and Picard. They
run into Bajorans) 
BAJORAN: Hold it. 
(Data drops his phaser) 
(Ro enters with a man who has his face half covered with a scarf. He
speaks with a metallic voice) 
ORTA: Captain Picard, I am Orta. Please forgive my appearance.
Unfortunately, some years ago, as a guest of the Cardassians, my face
was mutilated. My vocal cords were cut. 
PICARD: It was not necessary to abduct us. 
ORTA: I am sorry, but after speaking with Ro Laren, I decided that it
was. 
PICARD: Then she has done us both a disservice. I am committed to
peace. 
ORTA: I am not at all interested in peace. And I am not convinced you
are, either. 
RO: Captain, I did not come here to undermine this mission. 
PICARD: Whatever your motives, you've already done enough to damage
these negotiations. 
RO: I came here to convince these people to listen to you. I didn't
want this to end in bloodshed. 
PICARD: There will be no bloodshed. 
RO: You don't know all the facts, sir. 
PICARD: Then perhaps you would share them with me, Ensign. 
ORTA: All is not what it seems to be, Captain. Perhaps someone is using
you to get to me. Perhaps you are a victim of this deception as well. I
do not know. 
PICARD: Deception? 
ORTA: Your mission was to seek out the Bajoran terrorists who destroyed
the Federation settlement on Solarion Four. 
PICARD: Yes. 
ORTA: As I have informed Ro Laren, it was not the Bajora.

[Bridge]

WORF: He admits responsibility for dozens of
attacks on Cardassian targets. Why should we believe him about Solarion
Four? 
RO: He has no reason to lie. 
WORF: He fears our reprisal. 
TROI: I perceived no fear or deception from him. 
WORF: If they did not attack Solarion Four, then who did? And why would
anyone want to falsely implicate the Bajora? 
DATA: Perhaps someone wanted to draw us into the conflict. 
RO: What would anyone gain by doing that? 
PICARD: Ensign Ro, may I see you in my Ready room? 
RO: Yes, sir.

[Ready room]

PICARD: You do not leave this ship without
authorisation. 
RO: Captain, I'm sorry, but I 
PICARD: This is not a discussion. You're restricted to your quarters
for the remainder of this mission. Dismissed.

[Ro's quarters]

(the doorbell rings twice) 
RO: What? 
(Guinan enters) 
GUINAN: Hello, it's me, Guinan. I heard you got grounded. 
RO: I really don't feel like talking right now. 
GUINAN: Come on, sure you do. 
RO: Why is it, every time I tell you something, you tell me I mean the
exact opposite? 
GUINAN: Because you're one of those people who's got their poles
reversed. Do you want to talk about it? 
RO: It's nothing you can help me with. 
GUINAN: How do you know until you try? 
RO: Look, I got myself into this. I'm just trying to figure a way out.
That's all. Without anyone getting killed this time. Seems like
everybody's just pulling my strings, you know? Like I've got no
control. 
GUINAN: For people like you and me, who've lost their homes, sometimes
that's the way life feels. 
RO: I'm in trouble. There's more going on here than anybody on this
ship realises. It's more than I know how to deal with. And I really
don't know who to trust anymore. 
GUINAN: Including yourself? 
RO: Especially myself. 
GUINAN: You know, a very long time ago, I got into some serious trouble
too. And I mean serious. And I'd probably still be there if I hadn't
trusted one man. 
