RIKER WOMAN [OC] WORF DOLAK [on viewscreen] PICARD GUINAN KENNELLY [on viewscreen] KENNELLY [on monitor] RO DATA
kilometres hoping explanation peaceful obsolete warp solve reached authorisation

[Ready room]

PICARD: Come. 
(Guinan enters with Ro in tow) 
GUINAN: Ensign Ro has some things she'd like to talk to you about. 
PICARD: Ensign Ro has been confined to her quarters. 
GUINAN: Well, she can go back to her quarters when she's done. 
PICARD: Guinan, I don't know why you are involved in this, but 
GUINAN: She's my friend. 
(Guinan leaves) 
PICARD: Please sit down. Guinan is very selective about whom she calls
a friend. 
RO: Sir, when I'm finished telling you what I have to tell you, I'm
probably going to end up back in the stockade one way or the other. And
if that's how this has to be, then I just can't do this anymore. 
PICARD: What can you not do anymore, Ensign? 
RO: Admiral Kennelly came to me in prison and told me he'd arrange to
get me out if I'd go on a mission. 
PICARD: I know that part. 
RO: No, sir. Not this mission. One for him and only him. You were being
sent to talk, to negotiate. The Admiral knew that
was hopeless. My job was to give Orta an incentive. 
PICARD: What kind of incentive? 
RO: One that you couldn't offer. One that Starfleet couldn't offer.
Orta was to end the terrorism against the Federation and return with
his people to the camps. In exchange he would get weapons, ships,
things that would really make a difference
against the Cardassians in the future. 
PICARD: I find that almost impossible to believe. That Admiral Kennelly
would consider
supplying weapons to the terrorists? 
RO: If you ask him, he'll deny it. But it's true. I didn't leave the
ship without authorisation, Captain. I received it from the Admiral
last night. 
PICARD: You have been in contact with Admiral Kennelly during this
mission? 
RO: Yes, sir. The subspace log can confirm that part of it at least. 
PICARD: Arming these people is a violation of everything that the
Federation stands for. Even you cannot be blind to that. 
RO: No, sir, I'm not. But this was something I had to do. You see,
Captain, when I was seven years old I was given a piece of sugar candy
and I was led by a Cardassian into a room where my father was sitting.
And he looked at me with eyes I'd never seen. The Cardassian began to
ask him questions, and during the next two hours, as I was forced to
watch, my father was tortured until he died. And I remember feeling so
ashamed of him as he begged for mercy. I was ashamed of him for being
weak. I was ashamed of being Bajoran. Later I began to understand how
misguided those feelings were. And yet somehow, they have remained a
part of me. I don't want to be ashamed of my heritage any longer,
Captain. I serve the Federation. But I am Bajoran. A Starfleet Admiral
presented me with an opportunity to help my people in their fight
against the Cardassians. I had to accept it. 
PICARD: Have you made this offer to Orta? 
RO: No. After he told me the Bajora hadn't attacked Solarion Four,
nothing made sense anymore. I decided to wait until I could figure out
what was going on. 
PICARD: That was a wise choice, Ensign. It probably saved you from
another court martial. Have you briefed Admiral Kennelly since we
returned from the surface? 
RO: No, sir. Captain, I don't know who to trust anymore. But that
strange bartender of yours has a way of getting to you, and she said
that you were her friend. 
PICARD: Then we have one thing in common. Do you think that Orta would
cooperate with us to determine the truth here? 
RO: I think I could persuade him to. 
PICARD: Good. Our orders were to find him, to bring him back to the
camps any way we could. Perhaps that is exactly what we should do. 
RO: And then what? 
PICARD: And then watch what happens.

Captain's log, supplemental. I have become
convinced that we are somehow involved in a conspiracy. I am hopeful
the purpose behind it will be revealed in the next few hours.

[Bridge]

KENNELLY [on viewscreen]: Well done, Captain. 
PICARD: It was a team effort, Admiral. Ensign Ro was invaluable. 
KENNELLY [on viewscreen]: Good. What's the next step? 
PICARD: The Enterprise will escort a Bajoran Antares class carrier to
the Valo Three camp at oh five hundred hours. Orta and his people will
be aboard. 
KENNELLY [on viewscreen]: Good. Keep us advised of your progress. 
PICARD: Acknowledged. How's that Cardassian virus, Admiral? 
KENNELLY [on viewscreen]: A lot better, thank you. 
PICARD: I'm pleased. We will report as soon as our mission is
accomplished. Picard out. 
RIKER: Ensign Ro, take us to the designated coordinates. 
RO: Aye, sir. 
PICARD: Mister Data, keep an eye on the Cardassian border. 
DATA: Aye, sir. 
(later) 
WORF: The Bajoran vessel is moving up from the surface, Captain. 
PICARD: On screen. Hail them, Mister Worf. 
WORF: Audio channel open. The ship does not have visual capabilities. 
PICARD: This is Captain Picard. We're prepared to escort you to Valo
Three. 
WOMAN [OC]: Acknowledged, Captain. Be advised that our ship is limited
to half impulse. 
PICARD: Ensign Ro, set a course for Valo Three, half impulse. 
RO: Aye, sir. 
(after a while) 
DATA: I am monitoring increased activity inside Cardassian space. Two
ships are moving along the border heading one four two mark zero five
one. 
PICARD: Can you identify the class of these ships, Mister Worf? 
WORF: Cardassian warships, Galor class, type three. 
RIKER: Top of the line. 
DATA: They are moving into a course parallel to our own, Captain. 
PICARD: Yellow alert. Continue to monitor them. 
RIKER: Ensign Ro, what's the closest we come to the Cardassian border
on our current heading to Valo Three? 
RO: Thirteen thousand, four hundred kilometres, sir. 
RIKER: ETA? 
RO: Eight minutes. 
PICARD: That's where it will be. 
(about eight minutes later) 
DATA: The Cardassian ships are changing course, sir. They are crossing
the border. 
WORF: They're increasing power to their forward weapon grid. 
RIKER: Red alert. 
PICARD: Ensign Ro, set a course to intercept the Cardassians. Mister
Worf, open a channel to the Bajoran vessel. 
WORF: Open. 
PICARD: This is the Enterprise. We are moving to intercept two
Cardassian warships. Maintain your present course and speed. 
WOMAN [OC]: Acknowledged, Enterprise. 
WORF: The Cardassians are within visual range. 
PICARD: On screen. 
WORF: They are hailing us, sir. 
PICARD: Open a channel, Mister Worf. This is Captain Jean-Luc Picard of
the Federation Starship Enterprise. How can we help you? 
DOLAK [on viewscreen]: Gul Dolak, Cardassian Militia Four One. We have
no argument with you, Captain. 
PICARD: I'm pleased to hear that, Gul Dolak, for all of us in the
Federation value the peaceful relations with our Cardassian neighbours.

DOLAK [on viewscreen]: No more than we value the relations with our
Federation neighbours. 
PICARD: Well, now that we've established our mutual good will, what's
on your mind? 
DOLAK [on viewscreen]: We have identified the Bajoran ship you are
escorting as a terrorist carrier. 
PICARD: Terrorist carrier? Are you certain? 
DOLAK [on viewscreen]: Most certain, Captain. It has committed many
crimes against us. We know its markings well. 
PICARD: Rest assured, Gul Dolak, there will be no terrorist attacks
today. We are escorting the Bajoran settlers to their camp on Valo
Three. You can monitor their course if you wish. 
DOLAK [on viewscreen]: We would request that you withdraw and leave the
matter to us. 
PICARD: This is neutral space, Gul Dolak. You have no jurisdiction
here. 
DOLAK [on viewscreen]: Nor do you. 
PICARD: If we withdraw, what do you intend to do with the Bajoran
vessel? 
DOLAK [on viewscreen]: We intend to destroy it. 
PICARD: I see. That puts me in a difficult position. I promised to
escort these people to their camps. 
DOLAK [on viewscreen]: You are protecting the enemies of the Cardassian
people. If you do not withdraw, we will take great offence. 
PICARD: I'm sorry to offend you, Gul Dolak, but we cannot withdraw. 
DOLAK [on viewscreen]: We are prepared to take any steps necessary. 
PICARD: Is that intended as a threat? 
DOLAK [on viewscreen]: It is a complaint from your Cardassian
neighbours. You have one hour to withdraw. 
(transmission ends) 
PICARD: Advise Starfleet of our status, Mister Data. When Admiral
Kennelly calls, I'll speak to him in my Ready room.

[Ready room]

PICARD: It seemed, Admiral, that they knew our
course, our destination, our plan. 
KENNELLY [on monitor]: I'm sure they monitor the border at all times
for terrorist activity. Their sensors must picked up Orta's ship,
that's all. 
PICARD: I'm not convinced of that. 
KENNELLY [on monitor]: The important thing is, what do we do now? 
PICARD: Do you have any suggestions, Admiral? 
KENNELLY [on monitor]: Your top priority is to protect the Cardassian
treaty. 
PICARD: Sir, I see no way to protect the Cardassian peace without
sacrificing the Bajorans. 
KENNELLY [on monitor]: If that's your call, I'll support it. 
PICARD: No. I'm not willing to give them up. 
KENNELLY [on monitor]: I don't think you're looking at the big picture,
Jean-Luc. We can't afford to lose the Cardassian treaty. 
PICARD: Well, I just see a different big picture, Admiral. It looks
something like this. I see the Cardassian liaison, with his Cardassian
virus, coming to meet with you after the attack on Solarion Four. Now
we have a common enemy, he says. The Bajoran terrorists. The
Cardassians can't find them, but maybe the Federation can. I'm
beginning to see that our mission has, in fact, been to expose Orta so
that the Cardassians can move in and destroy him. 
KENNELLY [on monitor]: I think you've lost your perspective, Captain.
We'll discuss this further when you return. For now, I'm giving you a
direct order to withdraw. Kennelly out.

[Bridge]

PICARD: Ensign Ro, set a course, bearing one eight
seven mark one zero two, one quarter impulse. 
RO: Aye, sir. 
RIKER: He's ordered us to withdraw? 
WORF: The Cardassians are moving toward the Bajoran vessel, Captain. 
PICARD: Hold present course. 
WORF: The Bajoran ship has been destroyed. 
DATA: Subspace signal coming from Starfleet, Captain. Admiral Kennelly.

PICARD: On screen. 
DATA: It is on a secure channel, sir. In your ready room? 
PICARD: No. Here. On screen. 
KENNELLY [on viewscreen]: Report. 
PICARD: The Cardassians have destroyed the Bajoran ship, Admiral. 
KENNELLY [on viewscreen]: All hands lost? 
PICARD: No, sir. 
KENNELLY [on viewscreen]: Survivors? 
PICARD: No, sir. No one was on board. 
KENNELLY [on viewscreen]: What are you talking about? 
PICARD: The ship was controlled from the ground. Communication was
handled through a subspace relay on board the vessel. 
KENNELLY [on viewscreen]: This was your idea, Picard? 
PICARD: Actually, no. It was Ensign Ro's idea but I fully endorsed it.
I suspected that something like this might occur. 
KENNELLY [on viewscreen]: They're terrorists, damn it. Why in the hell
would you want to protect them? 
PICARD: Admiral, I am more concerned with protecting the honour and
integrity of Starfleet. 
KENNELLY [on viewscreen]: Do you know how many of our people they
killed on Solarion Four? 
PICARD: The Bajorans did not attack Solarion Four. 
KENNELLY [on viewscreen]: Who told you that? Orta? 
PICARD: Yes. 
KENNELLY [on viewscreen]: And you believed him? 
PICARD: Admiral, Orta's ships are old and obsolete. They don't even
have warp capabilities. They couldn't have reached another star system,
let alone attacked one. 
KENNELLY [on viewscreen]: But then who's responsible? 
PICARD: I would suggest you ask your friend the Cardassian liaison,
Admiral. The only explanation I can think of is that the Cardassians
staged it. 
KENNELLY [on viewscreen]: The Cardassians? Why? 
PICARD: Perhaps they were hoping to find someone in Starfleet like you,
Admiral, naive enough to solve their Bajoran problem for them.

