RIKER CRUSHER WORF PICARD TROI RO DATA

[Transporter room]

(a young woman in red uniform beams in, wearing a
sullen expression and a fancy earring) 
RO: Ensign Ro Laren reporting as ordered, Commander. 
RIKER: You will follow Starfleet uniform code aboard this ship, Ensign.

(she removes the earring)

[Ready room]

RIKER: There will be members of this crew who will
not want to serve with Ensign Laren, sir. 
PICARD: They'll have to learn to live with it. 
RIKER: I intend to demand the highest level of performance from her. 
PICARD: I would expect nothing less. It won't be for long, Will.
(doorbell) Come. 
(Ro Laren enters) 
PICARD: Yes, Ensign Laren, please have a seat. 
RO: Ensign Ro, sir. 
PICARD: I beg your pardon? 
RO: The Bajoran custom has the family name first, the individual's
second. I am properly addressed as Ensign Ro. 
PICARD: I'm sorry, I didn't know. 
RO: No, there's no reason you should. It's an old custom. Most Bajora
these days accept the distortion of their names in order to assimilate.
I do not. 
PICARD: I wish to be candid with you, Ensign. 
RO: Please. 
PICARD: I'm fully aware of your Starfleet record, your problems on
other ships, and the incident on Garon Two that led to your court
martial. And I'm concerned about your presence on this delicate
mission. 
RO: I don't want to be here any more than you want me to be here, sir. 
RIKER: Then why did you accept this assignment? 
RO: If I may be equally candid? It's better than prison. 
RIKER: Better than prison? There are officers who wait years to serve
on this ship. 
RO: Being called back into Starfleet was not my idea. 
RIKER: Nor ours. 
PICARD: Nevertheless, we will all be serving together. Commander Riker
and I have expectations of you. 
RO: Captain, I know the routine. You don't have to worry about me.
We're stuck with each other. So let's just get this over with as
quickly as possible and we can go our own separate ways, okay? 
(Ro leaves) 
PICARD: Dismissed.

Captain's log, supplemental. We are approaching the
Valo system on the outskirts of Cardassian territory, where many
Bajorans have resettled.

[Observation lounge]

DATA: There are dozens of Bajoran camps on the
three class-M planets. I suggest we may want to begin on Valo Three,
where an adhoc leader named Jas Holza lives. The Federation has had
several dealings with him. 
CRUSHER: I met Holza at a symposium a few years ago. 
PICARD: What can you tell us about him, Doctor? 
CRUSHER: I found him to be a very concerned leader and a good spokesman
for his people. And a terrific dancer. No, really, I'm serious. At a
reception afterwards. 
TROI: At least this man has genuine experience in diplomacy. 
PICARD: And that's a big advantage on this mission. Very well. Mister
Data, will you contact Holza, arrange a meeting? 
DATA: Sir. 
RIKER: Ensign Ro, you're familiar with this star system. You'll take
the conn. Is there a problem, Ensign? 
RO: You're wasting your time. Holza is nobody. He's the token Bajoran
that respectable people invite to symposiums and diplomatic soirees.
But he has no real influence among my people. 
DATA: Ensign, whom do you suggest we speak to? 
RO: Don't you understand? These are desperate people ready to martyr
themselves. They don't want to talk. 
WORF: This ship is prepared to defend itself if necessary. 
RO: Oh, it will be. Don't fool yourself. This mission will end in
bloodshed. 
PICARD: Well, let's hope that you're mistaken, Ensign. But can you
point us at the right individual, as Mister Data suggested? 
RO: I would go to the camp on the southern continent of Valo Two. Find
a man named Keeve Falor. He has no diplomatic experience. And he won't
ask you to dance.

Captain's log, supplemental. I read about the
achievements of the ancient Bajoran civilisation in my fifth grade
reader. They were architects and artists, builders and philosophers
when humans were not yet standing erect. Now I see how history has
rewarded them. 
