TROI WORF PICARD GUINAN RO DATA

[Bridge]

WORF: He admits responsibility for dozens of
attacks on Cardassian targets. Why should we believe him about Solarion
Four? 
RO: He has no reason to lie. 
WORF: He fears our reprisal. 
TROI: I perceived no fear or deception from him. 
WORF: If they did not attack Solarion Four, then who did? And why would
anyone want to falsely implicate the Bajora? 
DATA: Perhaps someone wanted to draw us into the conflict. 
RO: What would anyone gain by doing that? 
PICARD: Ensign Ro, may I see you in my Ready room? 
RO: Yes, sir.

[Ready room]

PICARD: You do not leave this ship without
authorisation. 
RO: Captain, I'm sorry, but I 
PICARD: This is not a discussion. You're restricted to your quarters
for the remainder of this mission. Dismissed.

[Ro's quarters]

(the doorbell rings twice) 
RO: What? 
(Guinan enters) 
GUINAN: Hello, it's me, Guinan. I heard you got grounded. 
RO: I really don't feel like talking right now. 
GUINAN: Come on, sure you do. 
RO: Why is it, every time I tell you something, you tell me I mean the
exact opposite? 
GUINAN: Because you're one of those people who's got their poles
reversed. Do you want to talk about it? 
RO: It's nothing you can help me with. 
GUINAN: How do you know until you try? 
RO: Look, I got myself into this. I'm just trying to figure a way out.
That's all. Without anyone getting killed this time. Seems like
everybody's just pulling my strings, you know? Like I've got no
control. 
GUINAN: For people like you and me, who've lost their homes, sometimes
that's the way life feels. 
RO: I'm in trouble. There's more going on here than anybody on this
ship realises. It's more than I know how to deal with. And I really
don't know who to trust anymore. 
GUINAN: Including yourself? 
RO: Especially myself. 
GUINAN: You know, a very long time ago, I got into some serious trouble
too. And I mean serious. And I'd probably still be there if I hadn't
trusted one man. 
[Ready room]

PICARD: Come. 
(Guinan enters with Ro in tow) 
GUINAN: Ensign Ro has some things she'd like to talk to you about. 
PICARD: Ensign Ro has been confined to her quarters. 
GUINAN: Well, she can go back to her quarters when she's done. 
PICARD: Guinan, I don't know why you are involved in this, but 
GUINAN: She's my friend. 
(Guinan leaves) 
PICARD: Please sit down. Guinan is very selective about whom she calls
a friend. 
RO: Sir, when I'm finished telling you what I have to tell you, I'm
probably going to end up back in the stockade one way or the other. And
if that's how this has to be, then I just can't do this anymore. 
PICARD: What can you not do anymore, Ensign? 
RO: Admiral Kennelly came to me in prison and told me he'd arrange to
get me out if I'd go on a mission. 
PICARD: I know that part. 
RO: No, sir. Not this mission. One for him and only him. You were being
sent to talk, to negotiate. The Admiral knew that
was hopeless. My job was to give Orta an incentive. 
PICARD: What kind of incentive? 
RO: One that you couldn't offer. One that Starfleet couldn't offer.
Orta was to end the terrorism against the Federation and return with
his people to the camps. In exchange he would get weapons, ships,
things that would really make a difference
against the Cardassians in the future. 
PICARD: I find that almost impossible to believe. That Admiral Kennelly
would consider
supplying weapons to the terrorists? 
RO: If you ask him, he'll deny it. But it's true. I didn't leave the
ship without authorisation, Captain. I received it from the Admiral
last night. 
PICARD: You have been in contact with Admiral Kennelly during this
mission? 
RO: Yes, sir. The subspace log can confirm that part of it at least. 
PICARD: Arming these people is a violation of everything that the
Federation stands for. Even you cannot be blind to that. 
RO: No, sir, I'm not. But this was something I had to do. You see,
Captain, when I was seven years old I was given a piece of sugar candy
and I was led by a Cardassian into a room where my father was sitting.
And he looked at me with eyes I'd never seen. The Cardassian began to
ask him questions, and during the next two hours, as I was forced to
watch, my father was tortured until he died. And I remember feeling so
ashamed of him as he begged for mercy. I was ashamed of him for being
weak. I was ashamed of being Bajoran. Later I began to understand how
misguided those feelings were. And yet somehow, they have remained a
part of me. I don't want to be ashamed of my heritage any longer,
Captain. I serve the Federation. But I am Bajoran. A Starfleet Admiral
presented me with an opportunity to help my people in their fight
against the Cardassians. I had to accept it. 
PICARD: Have you made this offer to Orta? 
RO: No. After he told me the Bajora hadn't attacked Solarion Four,
nothing made sense anymore. I decided to wait until I could figure out
what was going on. 
PICARD: That was a wise choice, Ensign. It probably saved you from
another court martial. Have you briefed Admiral Kennelly since we
returned from the surface? 
RO: No, sir. Captain, I don't know who to trust anymore. But that
strange bartender of yours has a way of getting to you, and she said
that you were her friend. 
PICARD: Then we have one thing in common. Do you think that Orta would
cooperate with us to determine the truth here? 
RO: I think I could persuade him to. 
PICARD: Good. Our orders were to find him, to bring him back to the
camps any way we could. Perhaps that is exactly what we should do. 
RO: And then what? 
PICARD: And then watch what happens.

Captain's log, supplemental. I have become
convinced that we are somehow involved in a conspiracy. I am hopeful
the purpose behind it will be revealed in the next few hours.

