RIKER RO WORF KEEVE PICARD TROI CRUSHER DATA

[Ready room]

RIKER: There will be members of this crew who will
not want to serve with Ensign Laren, sir. 
PICARD: They'll have to learn to live with it. 
RIKER: I intend to demand the highest level of performance from her. 
PICARD: I would expect nothing less. It won't be for long, Will.
(doorbell) Come. 
(Ro Laren enters) 
PICARD: Yes, Ensign Laren, please have a seat. 
RO: Ensign Ro, sir. 
PICARD: I beg your pardon? 
RO: The Bajoran custom has the family name first, the individual's
second. I am properly addressed as Ensign Ro. 
PICARD: I'm sorry, I didn't know. 
RO: No, there's no reason you should. It's an old custom. Most Bajora
these days accept the distortion of their names in order to assimilate.
I do not. 
PICARD: I wish to be candid with you, Ensign. 
RO: Please. 
PICARD: I'm fully aware of your Starfleet record, your problems on
other ships, and the incident on Garon Two that led to your court
martial. And I'm concerned about your presence on this delicate
mission. 
RO: I don't want to be here any more than you want me to be here, sir. 
RIKER: Then why did you accept this assignment? 
RO: If I may be equally candid? It's better than prison. 
RIKER: Better than prison? There are officers who wait years to serve
on this ship. 
RO: Being called back into Starfleet was not my idea. 
RIKER: Nor ours. 
PICARD: Nevertheless, we will all be serving together. Commander Riker
and I have expectations of you. 
RO: Captain, I know the routine. You don't have to worry about me.
We're stuck with each other. So let's just get this over with as
quickly as possible and we can go our own separate ways, okay? 
(Ro leaves) 
PICARD: Dismissed.

Captain's log, supplemental. We are approaching the
Valo system on the outskirts of Cardassian territory, where many
Bajorans have resettled.

[Observation lounge]

DATA: There are dozens of Bajoran camps on the
three class-M planets. I suggest we may want to begin on Valo Three,
where an adhoc leader named Jas Holza lives. The Federation has had
several dealings with him. 
CRUSHER: I met Holza at a symposium a few years ago. 
PICARD: What can you tell us about him, Doctor? 
CRUSHER: I found him to be a very concerned leader and a good spokesman
for his people. And a terrific dancer. No, really, I'm serious. At a
reception afterwards. 
TROI: At least this man has genuine experience in diplomacy. 
PICARD: And that's a big advantage on this mission. Very well. Mister
Data, will you contact Holza, arrange a meeting? 
DATA: Sir. 
RIKER: Ensign Ro, you're familiar with this star system. You'll take
the conn. Is there a problem, Ensign? 
RO: You're wasting your time. Holza is nobody. He's the token Bajoran
that respectable people invite to symposiums and diplomatic soirees.
But he has no real influence among my people. 
DATA: Ensign, whom do you suggest we speak to? 
RO: Don't you understand? These are desperate people ready to martyr
themselves. They don't want to talk. 
WORF: This ship is prepared to defend itself if necessary. 
RO: Oh, it will be. Don't fool yourself. This mission will end in
bloodshed. 
PICARD: Well, let's hope that you're mistaken, Ensign. But can you
point us at the right individual, as Mister Data suggested? 
RO: I would go to the camp on the southern continent of Valo Two. Find
a man named Keeve Falor. He has no diplomatic experience. And he won't
ask you to dance.

Captain's log, supplemental. I read about the
achievements of the ancient Bajoran civilisation in my fifth grade
reader. They were architects and artists, builders and philosophers
when humans were not yet standing erect. Now I see how history has
rewarded them. 
[Bajoran camp]

(Ro gives her uniform jacket to a young girl) 
RO: This used to be me. 
KEEVE: Baleekam. Balleek, balleek. Baleekam! Baleek. 
(the children scatter) 
KEEVE: Ro Laren. It's been a long time. 
RO: Keeve Falor, Captain Jean-Luc Picard, Commander Data and Lieutenant
Worf. 
PICARD: I'm pleased you agreed to meet with us, Mister Keeve. 
KEEVE: You honour me by the proper use of my name, Captain. 
PICARD: Ensign Ro has educated me. 
KEEVE: Has she? I'm pleased you still remember. Let me show you our
camp. We are not a violent race, Captain. Just passionate about our
cause. And that passion has led some to take up arms. 
PICARD: Do you know where we can find Orta? 
KEEVE: I'm afraid not. 
PICARD: Can you help us locate him? 
KEEVE: I'm sorry, I don't wish to help you. Don't misunderstand. I for
one believe the raid on the Federation outpost was poor judgment. You
are innocent bystanders, and I cannot condone violence against those
who are not our enemies. 
PICARD: Then I don't understand why you are unwilling? 
KEEVE: Because you are innocent bystanders. You were innocent
bystanders for decades as the Cardassians took our homes, as they
violated and tortured our people in the most hideous ways imaginable,
as we were forced to flee. 
PICARD: We were saddened by those events but they occurred within the
designated borders of the Cardassian Empire. 
KEEVE: And the Federation is pledged not to interfere in the internal
affairs of others. How convenient that must be for you,
to turn a deaf ear to those who suffer behind a line on a map. 
PICARD: Well, I'm not here to debate Federation policy with you, but I
can offer you assistance. 
KEEVE: Simply because of one terrorist attack? Perhaps I should have
known that. We should have attacked the Federation long ago. What do
you think of that, Ro? 
RO: I think you're a small man who feels a rush of power in his belly
and enjoys it far too much, Keeve. Stop talking and listen. 
PICARD: We've had our problems with the Cardassians too, but now that
we have a treaty, we're in a position to help. Your people have been
forced to resettle all over the quadrant. But now we can make a
legitimate case with the Cardassians that this is not an isolated
problem. We can work diplomatically on your behalf. But first, these
terrorist attacks must end. 
KEEVE: We live in different universes, you and I. Yours is about
diplomacy, politics, strategy. Mine is about blankets. If we were to
exchange places for one night, you might better understand. 
PICARD: Mister Data, see to it that the replicators provide a blanket
for every man, woman and child before nightfall. 
DATA: Aye, sir. 
(Data leaves) 
PICARD: Mister Worf, determine what these people may have in the way of
emergency needs and provide for them. 
WORF: Yes, sir. 
(Worf leaves) 
KEEVE: Thank you. Return to your ship. I will contact you when I have
any information that might be of assistance to you. Ensign. 
(Keeve leaves them)
PICARD: You were helpful. 
RO: The blankets were helpful. Nothing I said mattered. 
PICARD: In an age when their technology should be able to clothe and
feed all of them, that they should have to live like this. 
RO: I couldn't, and I wouldn't. That's one reason I ran away. They're
lost, defeated. I will never be.

Captain's log, stardate 45077.8. Keeve Falor has
kept his promise and directed us toward the third moon of Valo One,
where we will meet tomorrow with the terrorist leader, Orta.

