TROI LAFORGE WORF PICARD RIKER MARR HELM CRUSHER DATA
lure isolated alive possible beep possibly mom shake thoughts

[Bridge]

RIKER: It was pretty much as we expected, sir. No
survivors. 
CRUSHER: Not a trace of anything that was ever alive. Not even a seed
in their greenery storage. 
DATA: Warp and impulse engines are down, sir, but they can be
restarted. A skeleton crew could take the ship to a starbase. 
PICARD: No, we don't have time for that now. Mister Worf, send a
message to the nearest starbase. Ask them to dispatch a crew. 
DATA: Aye, sir. 
PICARD: Mister La Forge, make certain that we're still picking up the
gamma radiation pattern of the Entity. 
LAFORGE: Aye, sir. 
PICARD: Have you and Commander Data made any progress in finding a
means of communication? 
MARR: I believe so. There are some details to iron out. 
PICARD: Please keep working at it. We may need it soon.

[Turbolift]

DATA: Deck seventeen. Doctor, you have seemed
preoccupied since we surveyed the Kallisko. 
MARR: I've found it easy to talk to you, Commander. Do you mind if I
tell you something? 
DATA: Not at all. 
MARR: After hearing the screams of those men, I found it hard not to
think about my son, about what happened to him. I've read stories about
soldiers in the battlefield, wounded, dying. They call for their
mothers. And I've often wondered if my son called for me. If he died
wondering why I didn't come to him. 
[Ready room]

PICARD: Come. 
(takes his foot off the desk as Riker enters) 
RIKER: It's still headed for the Brechtian Cluster. We've
re-established our course. 
PICARD: Very well. Oh, one thing, Number One. Starfleet will be
notifying Carmen Davila's family of her death and returning her
personal effects. Would you care to enclose a letter? 
RIKER: Yes, sir. I'd like that very much. 
PICARD: Is there something more, Number One? 
RIKER: Permission to speak freely, sir? 
PICARD: Of course. 
RIKER: I've been thinking maybe Doctor Marr is right. Maybe we should
destroy the Entity. 
PICARD: Why do you think that? 
RIKER: It's already killed thousands. It will undoubtedly continue to
kill unless we stop it. I don't want those deaths on my conscience. 
PICARD: Are you sure that that's it, Number One, or are you being
influenced by personal feelings? 
RIKER: With all due respect, sir, I'm not a raw cadet. I've lost people
on missions before. If we take time to try to communicate with this
thing, we may lose our chance to destroy it. And I don't think we can
risk that. I think I'll go write that letter to Carmen's family.

[Data's quarters]

DATA: We should programme the bridge science
station to vary the emissions we direct toward the Entity. 
MARR: I'll write a subroutine that will allow us to change the
frequency of the graviton beam. Data? You told me you carried some of
my son's memories. 
DATA: That is correct, Doctor. 
MARR: What can you tell me about Renny? What were those thoughts? Was
he was he happy at all, on Omicron Theta? 
DATA: I have some vivid memories of sporting events. He played parrises
squares with a group of his schoolmates. 
MARR: Renny started parrises squares when he was young. Too young,
really. But the older children kept asking him to play, and I couldn't
keep him away. He had this natural gift. 
DATA: Yes, he was pleased to have won a championship emblem. 
MARR: I remember he wrote me about that. He was so proud. I'm
characterising pulse widths in nanoseconds. Sound right to you? 
DATA: Yes, Doctor. Your son's most intense memories revolve around a
young woman named Jenina. 
MARR: A girlfriend? I never knew about that. Of course, the last person
he would tell would be his mother. What was she like? 
DATA: He enjoyed her kindness, her gentleness, her physical attributes.

MARR: There. Now we can vary all the parameters directly from the
Bridge. 
DATA: Yes, Doctor. 
MARR: Could you do something for me? It would mean a lot. 
DATA: I would be happy to be of help. 
MARR: You see, all I have left of Renny, the only connection of him is
there, inside you. I was wondering if you would talk to me in his
voice. I know you have the ability to sound like other people, isn't
that right? 
DATA: That is true, Doctor, but what would you want me to say? 
MARR: Maybe something from his journals. 
DATA: Many of his journal entries took the form of letters to friends
and family. I could access one of those. 
DATA: (as Renny): I took my last exam today I think I did all right on
everything except cellular biology. I know you think it's important,
Mom, but I don't see how I'm ever going to use this stuff. In a couple
of weeks, a bunch of us are going on an archaeological dig in the
mountains. The Wallaces said it would be all right as long as we had
adult supervision, so don't worry. They're looking out for me. They're
really great people and I like them a lot, but they're kind of serious.
They don't have your sense of humour, Mom. Mom, I miss you.

Captain's log, stardate 45129.2. We are still in
pursuit of the Crystalline Entity. Data and Doctor Marr are prepared to
attempt communication with the being when we intercept it. I will admit
to some uncertainty about the prospect. It could
prove to be a scientific triumph, or a catastrophe.

[Bridge]

WORF: Sir, the Brechtian Cluster is now five light
years away. 
RIKER: Are we still picking up the Entity's pattern? 
DATA: Yes, Commander, but sensors have not yet locked onto its exact
whereabouts. 
MARR: Captain, we are reasonably sure it's between here and the
Brechtian Cluster. If I start emitting the graviton beam now, it may
serve as a lure. A kind of beacon. 
PICARD: Make it so. 
MARR: We'll start with a pulse width of five nanoseconds, frequency one
pulse per second. 
DATA: Commencing graviton emissions now. 
(and out goes the sonar beep) 
LAFORGE: No change in the sensor readings. 
MARR: Let's ramp frequency. 
DATA: Emissions now at ten pulses per second. 
WORF: Sir. 
MARR: What is it? Do you have something? 
WORF: A large mass approaching at warp speed. 
PICARD: Full stop. 
HELM: Aye, sir. 
PICARD: Doctor, continue emitting the signals. Mister Worf, on screen. 
RIKER: Shields up. 
PICARD: Magnify. 
MARR: It's beautiful. 
RIKER: What's it doing? Checking us out? 
PICARD: Possibly. Just as we're checking it out. 
DATA: Doctor Marr, do you wish to change the frequency? Doctor Marr? 
MARR: Yes. Yes, proceed, Commander. 
DATA: Changing to twenty pulses per second. 
(the Entity changes its direction of rotation) 
TROI: Is it responding to us? 
MARR: Let's test that. Ramp the frequency again, Commander. 
DATA: Emissions now at thirty pulses per second. 
LAFORGE: Captain, I'm reading a transmission from the Entity. A series
of graviton pulses. 
MARR: It's working. That's a response to our signal. 
PICARD: Remarkable. 
DATA: Captain, there is a pattern emerging from the signals. 
PICARD: It's trying to communicate with us. 
DATA: I believe so, sir, but it will take some time to decipher the
patterns. 
PICARD: Then it's possible. Communication, understanding. 
MARR: Let me try something else. A continuous graviton beam. 
LAFORGE: All graviton pulses from the Entity have stopped. 
TROI: Maybe it doesn't like what we're doing. 
PICARD: Doctor, return to the intermittent signal. 
(the Entity begins to shake) 
DATA: Doctor? Doctor Marr? Doctor Marr, we must return to the
intermittent signal. 
PICARD: Counsellor? 
TROI: Something's very wrong, Captain. 
DATA: Sir, the Entity is beginning to resonate. Vibrations are
increasing. 
PICARD: Doctor, stop the transmission. That is an order. Doctor Marr,
do you hear me? 
MARR: It's for you, Renny I did it for you. 
PICARD: Mister Worf, take charge of the Doctor. Mister Data, shut down
the transmission. 
LAFORGE: Vibration amplitude is increasing. It can't last much longer. 
DATA: I cannot stop our graviton signal, Captain. Doctor Marr has
isolated the access code. 
LAFORGE: Maybe I can create an override sequence. Shut it down from
here. 
DATA: The amplitude is still rising, Captain. Resonance is approaching
critical. 
LAFORGE: I can override her programme, but it's going to take some
time. 
(and the Entity shatters into a billion tiny shards) 
PICARD: Mister Worf, will you escort the Doctor to her quarters. 
WORF: Yes, sir. 
MARR: It will never hurt anyone again. 
DATA: Perhaps I should escort the Doctor, sir. 
PICARD: Fine, but don't leave her unattended. 
DATA: Please come with me, Doctor. 
MARR: Of course.

