RIKER CAPTAIN [OC] WORF PICARD MARR CRUSHER DATA LAFORGE
battlefield nanoseconds jenina going mom team reestablish pleased told

[Bridge]

CAPTAIN [OC]: We are being chased by an
unidentified entity travelling at warp speed. 
PICARD: A distress call from a ship called the Kallisko. It's being
pursued by an unknown object. 
CAPTAIN [OC]: Sensors indicate a crystalline structure of indeterminate
mass. 
PICARD: How strong are your shields, Captain? 
CAPTAIN [OC]: We are a transport ship. Our shields are minimal. 
PICARD: Do you carry weapons? 
CAPTAIN [OC]: Only low level particle phasers. Do you know what this
being is? 
PICARD: Kallisko, change course. Take evasive action. Do whatever you
can to outrun it. 
CAPTAIN [OC]: we are under attack! Captain, notify our people on Boreal
Three 
(transmission ends) 
PICARD: Mister Worf, try to reestablish. 
WORF: I cannot, sir. There is no response. 
DATA: The Crystalline Entity is moving away, sir. 
PICARD: Ensign, set a course for the Kallisko. Mister Riker, prepare an
away team. 
Captain's log, stardate 45125.7. An away team led
by Commander Riker has conducted a thorough survey of the alien ship
Kallisko, and has returned to the Enterprise to report.

[Bridge]

RIKER: It was pretty much as we expected, sir. No
survivors. 
CRUSHER: Not a trace of anything that was ever alive. Not even a seed
in their greenery storage. 
DATA: Warp and impulse engines are down, sir, but they can be
restarted. A skeleton crew could take the ship to a starbase. 
PICARD: No, we don't have time for that now. Mister Worf, send a
message to the nearest starbase. Ask them to dispatch a crew. 
DATA: Aye, sir. 
PICARD: Mister La Forge, make certain that we're still picking up the
gamma radiation pattern of the Entity. 
LAFORGE: Aye, sir. 
PICARD: Have you and Commander Data made any progress in finding a
means of communication? 
MARR: I believe so. There are some details to iron out. 
PICARD: Please keep working at it. We may need it soon.

[Turbolift]

DATA: Deck seventeen. Doctor, you have seemed
preoccupied since we surveyed the Kallisko. 
MARR: I've found it easy to talk to you, Commander. Do you mind if I
tell you something? 
DATA: Not at all. 
MARR: After hearing the screams of those men, I found it hard not to
think about my son, about what happened to him. I've read stories about
soldiers in the battlefield, wounded, dying. They call for their
mothers. And I've often wondered if my son called for me. If he died
wondering why I didn't come to him. 
[Ready room]

PICARD: Come. 
(takes his foot off the desk as Riker enters) 
RIKER: It's still headed for the Brechtian Cluster. We've
re-established our course. 
PICARD: Very well. Oh, one thing, Number One. Starfleet will be
notifying Carmen Davila's family of her death and returning her
personal effects. Would you care to enclose a letter? 
RIKER: Yes, sir. I'd like that very much. 
PICARD: Is there something more, Number One? 
RIKER: Permission to speak freely, sir? 
PICARD: Of course. 
RIKER: I've been thinking maybe Doctor Marr is right. Maybe we should
destroy the Entity. 
PICARD: Why do you think that? 
RIKER: It's already killed thousands. It will undoubtedly continue to
kill unless we stop it. I don't want those deaths on my conscience. 
PICARD: Are you sure that that's it, Number One, or are you being
influenced by personal feelings? 
RIKER: With all due respect, sir, I'm not a raw cadet. I've lost people
on missions before. If we take time to try to communicate with this
thing, we may lose our chance to destroy it. And I don't think we can
risk that. I think I'll go write that letter to Carmen's family.

[Data's quarters]

DATA: We should programme the bridge science
station to vary the emissions we direct toward the Entity. 
MARR: I'll write a subroutine that will allow us to change the
frequency of the graviton beam. Data? You told me you carried some of
my son's memories. 
DATA: That is correct, Doctor. 
MARR: What can you tell me about Renny? What were those thoughts? Was
he was he happy at all, on Omicron Theta? 
DATA: I have some vivid memories of sporting events. He played parrises
squares with a group of his schoolmates. 
MARR: Renny started parrises squares when he was young. Too young,
really. But the older children kept asking him to play, and I couldn't
keep him away. He had this natural gift. 
DATA: Yes, he was pleased to have won a championship emblem. 
MARR: I remember he wrote me about that. He was so proud. I'm
characterising pulse widths in nanoseconds. Sound right to you? 
DATA: Yes, Doctor. Your son's most intense memories revolve around a
young woman named Jenina. 
MARR: A girlfriend? I never knew about that. Of course, the last person
he would tell would be his mother. What was she like? 
DATA: He enjoyed her kindness, her gentleness, her physical attributes.

MARR: There. Now we can vary all the parameters directly from the
Bridge. 
DATA: Yes, Doctor. 
MARR: Could you do something for me? It would mean a lot. 
DATA: I would be happy to be of help. 
MARR: You see, all I have left of Renny, the only connection of him is
there, inside you. I was wondering if you would talk to me in his
voice. I know you have the ability to sound like other people, isn't
that right? 
DATA: That is true, Doctor, but what would you want me to say? 
MARR: Maybe something from his journals. 
DATA: Many of his journal entries took the form of letters to friends
and family. I could access one of those. 
DATA: (as Renny): I took my last exam today I think I did all right on
everything except cellular biology. I know you think it's important,
Mom, but I don't see how I'm ever going to use this stuff. In a couple
of weeks, a bunch of us are going on an archaeological dig in the
mountains. The Wallaces said it would be all right as long as we had
adult supervision, so don't worry. They're looking out for me. They're
really great people and I like them a lot, but they're kind of serious.
They don't have your sense of humour, Mom. Mom, I miss you.

Captain's log, stardate 45129.2. We are still in
pursuit of the Crystalline Entity. Data and Doctor Marr are prepared to
attempt communication with the being when we intercept it. I will admit
to some uncertainty about the prospect. It could
prove to be a scientific triumph, or a catastrophe.

