PICARD DATA LAFORGE MARR
room maybe greet killing talking determine ready earth captain

[Engineering]

LAFORGE: Okay, Doctor. We've input all the data you
collected on the surface. 
MARR: Just a minute, Commander. I have some cellulose readings from
soil samples that weren't included. 
(she inputs them herself) 
LAFORGE: You handle that unit like a veteran, Doctor. 
MARR: One thing about spending your life gathering information, you
learn your way around computers. Hydrocarbons slightly elevated,
bitrious filaments in trace amounts, lanthanides, nitrates all normal.
Nothing different. Everything falls within the parameters I established
at the other attack sites. 
DATA: Were you expecting a different result this time, Doctor? 
MARR: I've never surveyed a site so soon after an attack. I thought
maybe I'd find something new. Something that would make a difference. 
DATA: Doctor, have you ever scanned your samples for gamma radiation? 
MARR: Why would I do that? 
DATA: We are seeing high energy reactions that may show up in a gamma
scan. 
LAFORGE: And if they do, we might find a pattern, a kind of marker left
behind by the Entity. That's a good idea, Data. 
MARR: Frankly, I just don't see what that would get us. 
DATA: If the Entity left a residual trace of antiproton in the samples
we collected, a gamma radiation scan would reveal that. 
LAFORGE: Getting that readout now, Data. 
DATA: If we try a logarithmic scale, we will have better resolution. 
LAFORGE: There it is. Do you see it? 
DATA: Yes. Doctor? 
MARR: A sharp spike at ten keV. Another. A pattern. 
LAFORGE: So we know the Entity leaves antiprotons behind. 
MARR: If it also deposits antiprotons in space as it travels, can we
detect them? 
LAFORGE: Sure. We can set the ship's lateral sensors for gamma
radiation. 
MARR: Well, let's get to it, shall we?

[Corridor]

MARR: It seems I owe you thanks, Commander. 
DATA: The thanks actually go to Doctor Clendenning on Omicron Theta who
did the first experiments with gamma scans. 
MARR: I've never read that. It wasn't in any of his records. 
DATA: That is correct. But I possess much of his knowledge. He was
working on new detectors at the time of the attack on Omicron Theta.

[Turbolift]

MARR: I'd heard that you'd been programmed with the
experiences of the colonists, but frankly I find it hard to believe.
Bridge. 
DATA: It is true, Doctor. The contents of their logs and journals were
transferred into my memory cells. The man who created me also
experimented with scanning the synaptic patterns of the colonists'
temporal lobes and programming them into my neural nets. 
MARR: You possess their thoughts? 
DATA: To some degree. Doctor Soong hoped to provide me with an amalgam
of the colonists' memories. 
MARR: Interesting.

[Bridge]

(on the science monitor) 
MARR: There. A spike at ten keV. And again. It's the same pattern we
saw in Engineering. 
PICARD: Mister Data, can you project a course from it? 
DATA: Yes, sir. There are two possible destinations. The Brechtian
Cluster and the Argos system. 
PICARD: Is either populated? 
DATA: Yes, sir. The Brechtian Cluster has two inhabited planets. 
PICARD: Ensign, set a course for the Brechtian Cluster. 
MARR: Captain, I've done some preliminary estimates on the firing
pattern we need in order to destroy the Entity. The photon torpedoes
will require some reprogramming, but with your permission, I'll give
the calculations to Lieutenant Worf. 
PICARD: Reprogram the torpedoes, Mister Worf. Let's hope we don't have
to use them. 
MARR: I beg your pardon? 
PICARD: If we can possibly avoid firing on it, I would hope it would be

MARR: You aren't going to kill it? 
PICARD: Perhaps you should join me in my Ready room.

[Ready room]

MARR: I don't understand. Why are we pursuing the
Entity, if not to destroy it? 
PICARD: We're not hunters, Doctor. Nor is it our role to exact revenge.

MARR: What do you propose? We track it down, greet it warmly and ask if
it would mind terribly not ravaging any more planets? 
PICARD: I don't denying that it may be necessary to fire on it. But I
look on that as a last resort. 
MARR: Why? Why not just kill it? 
PICARD: I want to try to communicate with it. 
MARR: What? 
PICARD: We know from our own experience that our shields will protect
us. So long as we're in no danger, I will make every effort to
communicate. 
MARR: To what end? 
PICARD: If we can determine what its needs are, we might find other
sources to supply it. 
MARR: Its needs are to slaughter people by the thousands. It is nothing
but a giant killing machine. 
PICARD: Doctor, the sperm whale on Earth devours millions of cuttlefish
as it roams the oceans. It is not evil. It is feeding. The same may be
true of the Crystalline Entity. 
MARR: That would be small comfort for those who have died to feed it.
We're not talking about cuttlefish, we're talking about people. 
PICARD: I would argue that the Crystalline Entity has as much right to
be here as we do. Now, Commander Data has some theories on how we might
communicate. Please confer with him.

