TROI LAFORGE WORF PICARD RIKER MARR CRUSHER DATA

[Cave]

(with a convenient flight of steps downwards) 
CRUSHER: Watch your step but keep moving. 
RIKER: Let's go, let's go. Keep moving. Deeper into the cave. Come on.
Deeper into the cave. Keep moving. 
(the last of the survivors are in) 
RIKER: How much protection will this cave give us? 
DATA: The refractory metal in the rock formations may act as an
effective barrier. 
RIKER: Let's seal off this entrance. 
(they use their phasers to make a rockfall that blocks the entity's
ray) 
CRUSHER: Let's hope there's enough air in here. 
RIKER: There's got to be a ventilation source somewhere. We need some
light. 
(the devastation can be heard going on outside as Riker and Data use
the phasers to make the ceiling glow) 
RIKER: How are the others? 
CRUSHER: Just scrapes and bruises, I think. I'll check further. Where's
Carmen? 
RIKER: She didn't make it. She was trying to save an old man who'd
fallen. 
CRUSHER: I'm sorry. 
RIKER: I think we're going to be all right in here. I'm not sure about
the air supply, so stay put, don't move around. Don't expend
unnecessary energy. With any luck, we'll be able to wait this thing
out. 
RIKER: Riker to Enterprise. Riker to Enterprise. 
DATA: Commander, the refractory metals in the rock strata may also
interfere with communication. 
RIKER: Data we've only seen the Crystalline Entity once before. How do
you know these metals will protect us? 
DATA: I am not entirely certain they will, sir. 
RIKER: I was afraid you were going to say something like that. 
[Bridge]

WORF: Sir, the disturbance on Melona is becoming
more intense. 
PICARD: Keep hailing them. All channels, Mister Worf. 
TROI: Captain, the fact that they're not responding doesn't necessarily
mean there's anything wrong. The atmospheric disturbance could be
jamming the signal. 
PICARD: I know, Counsellor. 
WORF: Still no response, sir. 
PICARD: Increase to warp nine. How long, Mister Worf? 
WORF: Six hours.

[Cave]

(later, the air is starting to run out) 
CRUSHER: I've got one man unconscious. We can't stay in here much
longer. 
RIKER: If I open that entrance and it's still out there, we're dead. 
CRUSHER: If we all stay in here, we're dead. 
DATA: It has been over an hour since we heard the Entity, sir. It may
be gone. 
RIKER: Or it may be out there waiting for us. 
(there is a crash of something breaking in) 
RIKER: Everybody stay here. 
(the rockfall is being pushed away) 
WORF: Commander? Commander Riker, are you there? 
RIKER: Lieutenant Worf, I don't think I've ever seen a more beautiful
sight. 
LAFORGE: It's good to see you're all right, Commander. What's happened
here? 
RIKER: The Crystalline Entity paid us a visit. We lost two colonists,
but we got the rest in here. 
(they emerge to the sight of a planet stripped down to the rock and
soil)

Captain's log, stardate 45122.3. We have notified
Starfleet Command of our intention to pursue and investigate the
Crystalline Entity. To that end, we have been joined by Doctor Kila
Marr, a xenologist who has made studying the Entity her life's work.

[Transporter room]

(a silver-haired stately woman beams aboard) 
RIKER: Welcome to the Enterprise. I am Commander William Riker. 
MARR: Commander, Doctor Kila Marr. 
RIKER: Glad you're here. 
MARR: You were on the surface during the attack? 
RIKER: That's right. 
MARR: Remarkable. You and your group are the only known beings ever to
survive an assault by the Crystalline Entity. 
RIKER: We were lucky. 
MARR: I should say. And your android. He was there, too? 
RIKER: Lieutenant Commander Data was there, yes. 
MARR: Well, shall we get started? 
RIKER: I'd be glad to show you to your quarters. 
[Corridor]

MARR: Oh, Commander. A chance to talk to survivors
so soon after an attack? I've been waiting years for this. I don't want
to waste a moment more.

