PICARD DATA LAFORGE MARR
reactions aren ensign beg project lore piece settlers filament

[Cave]

DATA: Doctor, there is evidence of residual
bitrious matter in the soil. It was not present before the Entity's
attack. 
(she keeps walking away, scanning) 
DATA: Doctor? Doctor Marr, you have made it clear that my presence
disturbs you. However, I do not see how we can achieve our task if you
continue to ignore me. 
MARR: Commander, I can hear everything you say to me. If there is
anything worth my response, you can be sure I will not be silent. 
DATA: Then I do not understand your lack of interest in the bitrious
filament I mentioned. 
MARR: It's old news to me. I found evidence of bitrium on the last
three attack sites. It seems to be a residual that the Entity produces
after it absorbs living matter. I'm actually more interested in this
cave. It still amazes me that your group was spared. 
DATA: As I have speculated, the presence of refractory metals 
MARR: Refractory metals. Yes, I know. On two separate occasions
settlers sought refuge in caves. Some of them deeper than this one.
They perished anyway. 
DATA: Were those caves laced with kelbonite or fistrium? 
MARR: The tunnels on Forlat Three had strong deposits of kelbonite,
yes. 
DATA: Then perhaps the combination of the two metals prevented the
Entity from 
MARR: Perhaps it was you. 
DATA: I do not understand. 
MARR: Maybe it was your presence which made the Entity pass over the
people in this cave. Did that occur to you? 
DATA: I cannot see what effect my being here would have had 
MARR: If you had been in contact with the Entity, if that's the reason
Melona was attacked, it surely wouldn't have killed its ally. 
DATA: Do you believe that I lured the Entity here? 
MARR: Did you? 
DATA: No, Doctor. Because Lore betrayed the colonists on Omicron Theta,
you believe that I am capable of the same behaviour. You are mistaken,
Doctor. My programming is distinctly different from Lore's. 
MARR: You don't understand. I am accusing you of collaborating with
that monster! 
DATA: I do understand, and I am attempting to explain to you it is
impossible. 
MARR: It's amazing. You can't feel anything, can you? Nothing I say to
you hurts you. 
DATA: That is true, Doctor. 
MARR: I'm getting a slight elevation on monocaladium particulates in
this cave wall. Are you making note of it? 
DATA: Yes, Doctor. 
MARR: My son died on Omicron Theta. He was sixteen when the colony was
attacked. That is the reason I have became an expert on the Crystalline
Entity. I have spent my life studying it, tracking it, and hoping
someday to find it. And if I learn you have been helping that thing in
any way whatsoever, I will see to it that you are disassembled piece by
piece.

[Engineering]

LAFORGE: Okay, Doctor. We've input all the data you
collected on the surface. 
MARR: Just a minute, Commander. I have some cellulose readings from
soil samples that weren't included. 
(she inputs them herself) 
LAFORGE: You handle that unit like a veteran, Doctor. 
MARR: One thing about spending your life gathering information, you
learn your way around computers. Hydrocarbons slightly elevated,
bitrious filaments in trace amounts, lanthanides, nitrates all normal.
Nothing different. Everything falls within the parameters I established
at the other attack sites. 
DATA: Were you expecting a different result this time, Doctor? 
MARR: I've never surveyed a site so soon after an attack. I thought
maybe I'd find something new. Something that would make a difference. 
DATA: Doctor, have you ever scanned your samples for gamma radiation? 
MARR: Why would I do that? 
DATA: We are seeing high energy reactions that may show up in a gamma
scan. 
LAFORGE: And if they do, we might find a pattern, a kind of marker left
behind by the Entity. That's a good idea, Data. 
MARR: Frankly, I just don't see what that would get us. 
DATA: If the Entity left a residual trace of antiproton in the samples
we collected, a gamma radiation scan would reveal that. 
LAFORGE: Getting that readout now, Data. 
DATA: If we try a logarithmic scale, we will have better resolution. 
LAFORGE: There it is. Do you see it? 
DATA: Yes. Doctor? 
MARR: A sharp spike at ten keV. Another. A pattern. 
LAFORGE: So we know the Entity leaves antiprotons behind. 
MARR: If it also deposits antiprotons in space as it travels, can we
detect them? 
LAFORGE: Sure. We can set the ship's lateral sensors for gamma
radiation. 
MARR: Well, let's get to it, shall we?

[Corridor]

MARR: It seems I owe you thanks, Commander. 
DATA: The thanks actually go to Doctor Clendenning on Omicron Theta who
did the first experiments with gamma scans. 
MARR: I've never read that. It wasn't in any of his records. 
DATA: That is correct. But I possess much of his knowledge. He was
working on new detectors at the time of the attack on Omicron Theta.

[Turbolift]

MARR: I'd heard that you'd been programmed with the
experiences of the colonists, but frankly I find it hard to believe.
Bridge. 
DATA: It is true, Doctor. The contents of their logs and journals were
transferred into my memory cells. The man who created me also
experimented with scanning the synaptic patterns of the colonists'
temporal lobes and programming them into my neural nets. 
MARR: You possess their thoughts? 
DATA: To some degree. Doctor Soong hoped to provide me with an amalgam
of the colonists' memories. 
MARR: Interesting.

[Bridge]

(on the science monitor) 
MARR: There. A spike at ten keV. And again. It's the same pattern we
saw in Engineering. 
PICARD: Mister Data, can you project a course from it? 
DATA: Yes, sir. There are two possible destinations. The Brechtian
Cluster and the Argos system. 
PICARD: Is either populated? 
DATA: Yes, sir. The Brechtian Cluster has two inhabited planets. 
PICARD: Ensign, set a course for the Brechtian Cluster. 
MARR: Captain, I've done some preliminary estimates on the firing
pattern we need in order to destroy the Entity. The photon torpedoes
will require some reprogramming, but with your permission, I'll give
the calculations to Lieutenant Worf. 
PICARD: Reprogram the torpedoes, Mister Worf. Let's hope we don't have
to use them. 
MARR: I beg your pardon? 
PICARD: If we can possibly avoid firing on it, I would hope it would be

MARR: You aren't going to kill it? 
PICARD: Perhaps you should join me in my Ready room.

