TROI LAFORGE WORF PICARD RIKER MARR CRUSHER DATA

[Bridge]

WORF: Sir, the disturbance on Melona is becoming
more intense. 
PICARD: Keep hailing them. All channels, Mister Worf. 
TROI: Captain, the fact that they're not responding doesn't necessarily
mean there's anything wrong. The atmospheric disturbance could be
jamming the signal. 
PICARD: I know, Counsellor. 
WORF: Still no response, sir. 
PICARD: Increase to warp nine. How long, Mister Worf? 
WORF: Six hours.

[Cave]

(later, the air is starting to run out) 
CRUSHER: I've got one man unconscious. We can't stay in here much
longer. 
RIKER: If I open that entrance and it's still out there, we're dead. 
CRUSHER: If we all stay in here, we're dead. 
DATA: It has been over an hour since we heard the Entity, sir. It may
be gone. 
RIKER: Or it may be out there waiting for us. 
(there is a crash of something breaking in) 
RIKER: Everybody stay here. 
(the rockfall is being pushed away) 
WORF: Commander? Commander Riker, are you there? 
RIKER: Lieutenant Worf, I don't think I've ever seen a more beautiful
sight. 
LAFORGE: It's good to see you're all right, Commander. What's happened
here? 
RIKER: The Crystalline Entity paid us a visit. We lost two colonists,
but we got the rest in here. 
(they emerge to the sight of a planet stripped down to the rock and
soil)

Captain's log, stardate 45122.3. We have notified
Starfleet Command of our intention to pursue and investigate the
Crystalline Entity. To that end, we have been joined by Doctor Kila
Marr, a xenologist who has made studying the Entity her life's work.

[Transporter room]

(a silver-haired stately woman beams aboard) 
RIKER: Welcome to the Enterprise. I am Commander William Riker. 
MARR: Commander, Doctor Kila Marr. 
RIKER: Glad you're here. 
MARR: You were on the surface during the attack? 
RIKER: That's right. 
MARR: Remarkable. You and your group are the only known beings ever to
survive an assault by the Crystalline Entity. 
RIKER: We were lucky. 
MARR: I should say. And your android. He was there, too? 
RIKER: Lieutenant Commander Data was there, yes. 
MARR: Well, shall we get started? 
RIKER: I'd be glad to show you to your quarters. 
[Corridor]

MARR: Oh, Commander. A chance to talk to survivors
so soon after an attack? I've been waiting years for this. I don't want
to waste a moment more.

[Observation lounge]

CRUSHER: And when we came out of the cave there was
nothing left. Everywhere we looked there was complete devastation.
Trees gone, nothing. 
MARR: That's typical. It could take years for anything to grow again. 
DATA: Doctor, I ran a full spectrographic analysis, section by section.
Trace elements confirm that it is the same entity which destroyed the
colony at Omicron Theta. 
MARR: The Crystalline Entity seems to function like a gigantic
electromagnetic collector. It needs a lot of power to keep going so it
strips every form of life from the worlds it encounters and converts it
all into energy. 
RIKER: There's no vegetation, no insects, not even soil bacteria. It
left nothing. 
MARR: Except witnesses, for the first time in eleven recorded attacks.
Now why, I wonder, did it spare your group? 
RIKER: It didn't spare everyone, Doctor. If you'll check your reports,
you'll find that two of the colonists didn't survive. 
MARR: My point is that until now there have never been any survivors. 
DATA: Doctor, the cave in which we hid was made of rock which contained
heavy concentrations of kelbonite and fistrium. We surmise that the
Entity was unable to penetrate that barrier. 
MARR: I would like to do interviews with each of the survivors. Collect
as much specific detail as I can of their observations. 
PICARD: Of course. 
MARR: And I'd like to inspect the remains of Melona Colony as soon as
possible. 
PICARD: Commander Data, you will accompany the Doctor to the surface. 
DATA: Yes, sir. 
MARR: If you don't mind, Captain, I prefer to choose my own team. 
PICARD: Doctor, there is no one on this ship with more knowledge of the
Crystalline Entity than Commander Data. He originated on Omicron Theta.

MARR: I am aware of his origins. I'm very much aware that his brother,
Lore, worked with the Crystalline Entity, led it to Omicron Theta where
it killed every living thing. I don't think it's unreasonable that I
should prefer to make another choice. 
PICARD: You may request additional team members, but in the best
interest of this investigation, I think you should work with Commander
Data. 
MARR: As you wish, Captain. 
(Marr, Riker and Data leave) 
PICARD: Well? 
TROI: I don't think you need an empath to sense that woman's feelings.
There's hostility that she seems to have transferred from Lore to Data.
Perhaps you shouldn't have forced them together so soon. 
PICARD: If her discomfort is going to affect her judgement or her
objectivity, I need to know now.

