TROI LAFORGE PICARD RIKER MARR CRUSHER DATA
section didn lanthanides aware keeps mentioned piece ll wonder

[Transporter room]

(a silver-haired stately woman beams aboard) 
RIKER: Welcome to the Enterprise. I am Commander William Riker. 
MARR: Commander, Doctor Kila Marr. 
RIKER: Glad you're here. 
MARR: You were on the surface during the attack? 
RIKER: That's right. 
MARR: Remarkable. You and your group are the only known beings ever to
survive an assault by the Crystalline Entity. 
RIKER: We were lucky. 
MARR: I should say. And your android. He was there, too? 
RIKER: Lieutenant Commander Data was there, yes. 
MARR: Well, shall we get started? 
RIKER: I'd be glad to show you to your quarters. 
[Corridor]

MARR: Oh, Commander. A chance to talk to survivors
so soon after an attack? I've been waiting years for this. I don't want
to waste a moment more.

[Observation lounge]

CRUSHER: And when we came out of the cave there was
nothing left. Everywhere we looked there was complete devastation.
Trees gone, nothing. 
MARR: That's typical. It could take years for anything to grow again. 
DATA: Doctor, I ran a full spectrographic analysis, section by section.
Trace elements confirm that it is the same entity which destroyed the
colony at Omicron Theta. 
MARR: The Crystalline Entity seems to function like a gigantic
electromagnetic collector. It needs a lot of power to keep going so it
strips every form of life from the worlds it encounters and converts it
all into energy. 
RIKER: There's no vegetation, no insects, not even soil bacteria. It
left nothing. 
MARR: Except witnesses, for the first time in eleven recorded attacks.
Now why, I wonder, did it spare your group? 
RIKER: It didn't spare everyone, Doctor. If you'll check your reports,
you'll find that two of the colonists didn't survive. 
MARR: My point is that until now there have never been any survivors. 
DATA: Doctor, the cave in which we hid was made of rock which contained
heavy concentrations of kelbonite and fistrium. We surmise that the
Entity was unable to penetrate that barrier. 
MARR: I would like to do interviews with each of the survivors. Collect
as much specific detail as I can of their observations. 
PICARD: Of course. 
MARR: And I'd like to inspect the remains of Melona Colony as soon as
possible. 
PICARD: Commander Data, you will accompany the Doctor to the surface. 
DATA: Yes, sir. 
MARR: If you don't mind, Captain, I prefer to choose my own team. 
PICARD: Doctor, there is no one on this ship with more knowledge of the
Crystalline Entity than Commander Data. He originated on Omicron Theta.

MARR: I am aware of his origins. I'm very much aware that his brother,
Lore, worked with the Crystalline Entity, led it to Omicron Theta where
it killed every living thing. I don't think it's unreasonable that I
should prefer to make another choice. 
PICARD: You may request additional team members, but in the best
interest of this investigation, I think you should work with Commander
Data. 
MARR: As you wish, Captain. 
(Marr, Riker and Data leave) 
PICARD: Well? 
TROI: I don't think you need an empath to sense that woman's feelings.
There's hostility that she seems to have transferred from Lore to Data.
Perhaps you shouldn't have forced them together so soon. 
PICARD: If her discomfort is going to affect her judgement or her
objectivity, I need to know now.

[Cave]

DATA: Doctor, there is evidence of residual
bitrious matter in the soil. It was not present before the Entity's
attack. 
(she keeps walking away, scanning) 
DATA: Doctor? Doctor Marr, you have made it clear that my presence
disturbs you. However, I do not see how we can achieve our task if you
continue to ignore me. 
MARR: Commander, I can hear everything you say to me. If there is
anything worth my response, you can be sure I will not be silent. 
DATA: Then I do not understand your lack of interest in the bitrious
filament I mentioned. 
MARR: It's old news to me. I found evidence of bitrium on the last
three attack sites. It seems to be a residual that the Entity produces
after it absorbs living matter. I'm actually more interested in this
cave. It still amazes me that your group was spared. 
DATA: As I have speculated, the presence of refractory metals 
MARR: Refractory metals. Yes, I know. On two separate occasions
settlers sought refuge in caves. Some of them deeper than this one.
They perished anyway. 
DATA: Were those caves laced with kelbonite or fistrium? 
MARR: The tunnels on Forlat Three had strong deposits of kelbonite,
yes. 
DATA: Then perhaps the combination of the two metals prevented the
Entity from 
MARR: Perhaps it was you. 
DATA: I do not understand. 
MARR: Maybe it was your presence which made the Entity pass over the
people in this cave. Did that occur to you? 
DATA: I cannot see what effect my being here would have had 
MARR: If you had been in contact with the Entity, if that's the reason
Melona was attacked, it surely wouldn't have killed its ally. 
DATA: Do you believe that I lured the Entity here? 
MARR: Did you? 
DATA: No, Doctor. Because Lore betrayed the colonists on Omicron Theta,
you believe that I am capable of the same behaviour. You are mistaken,
Doctor. My programming is distinctly different from Lore's. 
MARR: You don't understand. I am accusing you of collaborating with
that monster! 
DATA: I do understand, and I am attempting to explain to you it is
impossible. 
MARR: It's amazing. You can't feel anything, can you? Nothing I say to
you hurts you. 
DATA: That is true, Doctor. 
MARR: I'm getting a slight elevation on monocaladium particulates in
this cave wall. Are you making note of it? 
DATA: Yes, Doctor. 
MARR: My son died on Omicron Theta. He was sixteen when the colony was
attacked. That is the reason I have became an expert on the Crystalline
Entity. I have spent my life studying it, tracking it, and hoping
someday to find it. And if I learn you have been helping that thing in
any way whatsoever, I will see to it that you are disassembled piece by
piece.

[Engineering]

LAFORGE: Okay, Doctor. We've input all the data you
collected on the surface. 
MARR: Just a minute, Commander. I have some cellulose readings from
soil samples that weren't included. 
(she inputs them herself) 
LAFORGE: You handle that unit like a veteran, Doctor. 
MARR: One thing about spending your life gathering information, you
learn your way around computers. Hydrocarbons slightly elevated,
bitrious filaments in trace amounts, lanthanides, nitrates all normal.
Nothing different. Everything falls within the parameters I established
at the other attack sites. 
DATA: Were you expecting a different result this time, Doctor? 
MARR: I've never surveyed a site so soon after an attack. I thought
maybe I'd find something new. Something that would make a difference. 
DATA: Doctor, have you ever scanned your samples for gamma radiation? 
MARR: Why would I do that? 
DATA: We are seeing high energy reactions that may show up in a gamma
scan. 
LAFORGE: And if they do, we might find a pattern, a kind of marker left
behind by the Entity. That's a good idea, Data. 
MARR: Frankly, I just don't see what that would get us. 
DATA: If the Entity left a residual trace of antiproton in the samples
we collected, a gamma radiation scan would reveal that. 
LAFORGE: Getting that readout now, Data. 
DATA: If we try a logarithmic scale, we will have better resolution. 
LAFORGE: There it is. Do you see it? 
DATA: Yes. Doctor? 
MARR: A sharp spike at ten keV. Another. A pattern. 
LAFORGE: So we know the Entity leaves antiprotons behind. 
MARR: If it also deposits antiprotons in space as it travels, can we
detect them? 
LAFORGE: Sure. We can set the ship's lateral sensors for gamma
radiation. 
MARR: Well, let's get to it, shall we?

