CAPTAIN [OC] WORF PICARD MARR RIKER [OC] DATA
room degree talking resort team ready believe order minute

[Turbolift]

MARR: I'd heard that you'd been programmed with the
experiences of the colonists, but frankly I find it hard to believe.
Bridge. 
DATA: It is true, Doctor. The contents of their logs and journals were
transferred into my memory cells. The man who created me also
experimented with scanning the synaptic patterns of the colonists'
temporal lobes and programming them into my neural nets. 
MARR: You possess their thoughts? 
DATA: To some degree. Doctor Soong hoped to provide me with an amalgam
of the colonists' memories. 
MARR: Interesting.

[Bridge]

(on the science monitor) 
MARR: There. A spike at ten keV. And again. It's the same pattern we
saw in Engineering. 
PICARD: Mister Data, can you project a course from it? 
DATA: Yes, sir. There are two possible destinations. The Brechtian
Cluster and the Argos system. 
PICARD: Is either populated? 
DATA: Yes, sir. The Brechtian Cluster has two inhabited planets. 
PICARD: Ensign, set a course for the Brechtian Cluster. 
MARR: Captain, I've done some preliminary estimates on the firing
pattern we need in order to destroy the Entity. The photon torpedoes
will require some reprogramming, but with your permission, I'll give
the calculations to Lieutenant Worf. 
PICARD: Reprogram the torpedoes, Mister Worf. Let's hope we don't have
to use them. 
MARR: I beg your pardon? 
PICARD: If we can possibly avoid firing on it, I would hope it would be

MARR: You aren't going to kill it? 
PICARD: Perhaps you should join me in my Ready room.

[Ready room]

MARR: I don't understand. Why are we pursuing the
Entity, if not to destroy it? 
PICARD: We're not hunters, Doctor. Nor is it our role to exact revenge.

MARR: What do you propose? We track it down, greet it warmly and ask if
it would mind terribly not ravaging any more planets? 
PICARD: I don't denying that it may be necessary to fire on it. But I
look on that as a last resort. 
MARR: Why? Why not just kill it? 
PICARD: I want to try to communicate with it. 
MARR: What? 
PICARD: We know from our own experience that our shields will protect
us. So long as we're in no danger, I will make every effort to
communicate. 
MARR: To what end? 
PICARD: If we can determine what its needs are, we might find other
sources to supply it. 
MARR: Its needs are to slaughter people by the thousands. It is nothing
but a giant killing machine. 
PICARD: Doctor, the sperm whale on Earth devours millions of cuttlefish
as it roams the oceans. It is not evil. It is feeding. The same may be
true of the Crystalline Entity. 
MARR: That would be small comfort for those who have died to feed it.
We're not talking about cuttlefish, we're talking about people. 
PICARD: I would argue that the Crystalline Entity has as much right to
be here as we do. Now, Commander Data has some theories on how we might
communicate. Please confer with him.

[Data's quarters]

(Data is playing Spanish guitar when the doorbell
chimes) 
DATA: Come in. 
MARR: Am I disturbing you? 
DATA: Not at all, Doctor. 
MARR: Commander, there's something I want to say. You have been helpful
to me, and kind, and I repaid you with accusations, and I realise I may
have been wrong. 
DATA: That is very gracious of you to say, Doctor, but I have not been
injured by you. 
MARR: Captain Picard has told me you've done work in trying to
establish communication with the Entity. 
DATA: That is true. I have experimented with producing vibrations in
crystals by means of graviton pulses. 
MARR: Like tapping a crystal goblet? 
DATA: Exactly. I will call up the results I have achieved this far for
you to study. 
MARR: All right. Commander, just what kind of memories do you retain of
the colonists? 
DATA: I do not possess the minute to minute remembrances of each
person, although the more intense recollections are contained in my
memory banks. 
MARR: Do you have any of my son's memories? 
DATA: Marr, Raymond. Called Renny. Yes. I do. 
MARR: I see. And his journals? 
DATA: Yes. 
MARR: I was wondering. Do you know? Did he blame me? 
DATA: Blame you? 
MARR: For going away. For leaving him on Omicron Theta. 
DATA: There are no records of any blame against you. 
MARR: I left him with friends. I chose to pursue my own career. I
planned to go back, but things kept interfering. I kept thinking, I'll
go next month. And there weren't any more next months. 
DATA: There are no records of any negative thoughts about you. His
personal journals indicated that he was proud that you were such a fine
scientist. 
MARR: He was? What else do you know? 
RIKER [OC]: Commander Data, Doctor Marr, report to the Bridge
immediately.

[Bridge]

CAPTAIN [OC]: We are being chased by an
unidentified entity travelling at warp speed. 
PICARD: A distress call from a ship called the Kallisko. It's being
pursued by an unknown object. 
CAPTAIN [OC]: Sensors indicate a crystalline structure of indeterminate
mass. 
PICARD: How strong are your shields, Captain? 
CAPTAIN [OC]: We are a transport ship. Our shields are minimal. 
PICARD: Do you carry weapons? 
CAPTAIN [OC]: Only low level particle phasers. Do you know what this
being is? 
PICARD: Kallisko, change course. Take evasive action. Do whatever you
can to outrun it. 
CAPTAIN [OC]: we are under attack! Captain, notify our people on Boreal
Three 
(transmission ends) 
PICARD: Mister Worf, try to reestablish. 
WORF: I cannot, sir. There is no response. 
DATA: The Crystalline Entity is moving away, sir. 
PICARD: Ensign, set a course for the Kallisko. Mister Riker, prepare an
away team. 
Captain's log, stardate 45125.7. An away team led
by Commander Riker has conducted a thorough survey of the alien ship
Kallisko, and has returned to the Enterprise to report.

