TROI LAFORGE WORF PICARD RIKER CRUSHER DATA
don deeper signal colony violent commander engineering enterprise entirely

[Engineering]

LAFORGE: Yes, sir. Something strange is going on.
There are violent disruptions in the atmosphere. 
[Bridge]

PICARD: Ensign, increase to warp eight.

[Melona colony]

RIKER: Come on, keep moving. 
[Cave]

(with a convenient flight of steps downwards) 
CRUSHER: Watch your step but keep moving. 
RIKER: Let's go, let's go. Keep moving. Deeper into the cave. Come on.
Deeper into the cave. Keep moving. 
(the last of the survivors are in) 
RIKER: How much protection will this cave give us? 
DATA: The refractory metal in the rock formations may act as an
effective barrier. 
RIKER: Let's seal off this entrance. 
(they use their phasers to make a rockfall that blocks the entity's
ray) 
CRUSHER: Let's hope there's enough air in here. 
RIKER: There's got to be a ventilation source somewhere. We need some
light. 
(the devastation can be heard going on outside as Riker and Data use
the phasers to make the ceiling glow) 
RIKER: How are the others? 
CRUSHER: Just scrapes and bruises, I think. I'll check further. Where's
Carmen? 
RIKER: She didn't make it. She was trying to save an old man who'd
fallen. 
CRUSHER: I'm sorry. 
RIKER: I think we're going to be all right in here. I'm not sure about
the air supply, so stay put, don't move around. Don't expend
unnecessary energy. With any luck, we'll be able to wait this thing
out. 
RIKER: Riker to Enterprise. Riker to Enterprise. 
DATA: Commander, the refractory metals in the rock strata may also
interfere with communication. 
RIKER: Data we've only seen the Crystalline Entity once before. How do
you know these metals will protect us? 
DATA: I am not entirely certain they will, sir. 
RIKER: I was afraid you were going to say something like that. 
[Bridge]

WORF: Sir, the disturbance on Melona is becoming
more intense. 
PICARD: Keep hailing them. All channels, Mister Worf. 
TROI: Captain, the fact that they're not responding doesn't necessarily
mean there's anything wrong. The atmospheric disturbance could be
jamming the signal. 
PICARD: I know, Counsellor. 
WORF: Still no response, sir. 
PICARD: Increase to warp nine. How long, Mister Worf? 
WORF: Six hours.

