DATA RIKER CRUSHER CARMEN
building way puts start tree stay located want come

  [Melona
colony]

(grass, trees, surveying equipment and a map) 
CARMEN: The hospital facility will be located there, facing north in
that grove of trees. And the school and the arts centre
will be standing there, centrally located among the residential pods. 
RIKER: Very good. At this rate we'll be able to bring the next wave of
colonists in in about six months. I've to tell you I envy you. This is
a beautiful place to put down roots. 
CARMEN: Somehow, Riker, you don't strike me as the kind that puts down
roots. 
RIKER: No? How do I strike you? 
CARMEN: As a free spirit. An adventurer. 
RIKER: An adventurer? Aren't you pioneers adventurers at heart? 
CARMEN: Of course. But we also have this nesting instinct. It's
exciting to find a new world but the joy comes in making it
a home. Building houses, having children. 
RIKER: Very interesting. I'd love to discuss this further with you.
Dinner tonight? 
CARMEN: If you want to share camp rations in my tent, I'd be delighted.

RIKER: Haven't we gotten you a replicator yet? 
CARMEN: No, we haven't, but I've been saving my ration of dried chicken
curry. It should go very nicely with that bottle of wine I happen to
know you brought with you. 
RIKER: This is sounding better all the time. 
CARMEN: And as you know, I provide the most memorable desserts. 
RIKER: My favourite part of dinner. 
CRUSHER: Will? Carmen? We've been going over the schematics for the
hospital. The location seems fine. 
RIKER: When the Enterprise comes back tomorrow, we'll get a crew
started on that. 
(there's a rumbling noise) 
RIKER: Carmen, have you got construction started I didn't know about? 
CARMEN: No. What is that? 
RIKER: Data? 
DATA: I do not recognise the sound. I believe it is coming from above. 
(something passes in front of the sun and the wind picks up) 
CARMEN: Will, what is it? 
RIKER: Data, what's our best bet for cover? 
DATA: Subterranean caverns to the east, sir. Doctor. 
(Data and Crusher run off) 
CARMEN: Will. 
RIKER: Start gathering everybody together. We've seen this before. We
know what it is. Now get moving. 
(a large crystalline entity hangs in the sky) 
(after the opening titles, everyone is running from the monster) 
RIKER: Follow him. Let's go! Come on, come on! 
(Riker brings up the rear of the column. The entity sends out a beam
that destroys a swathe of grass and a tree. Data leads them over a
ridge.) 
RIKER: No, stay together! Stay together! This way! This way! This way! 
(Will picks up a child) 
RIKER: I've got you. 
(an older man falls, and Carmen goes back for him) 
CARMEN: Will, help us! 
RIKER: Data! (he hands over the child) Carmen! 
(but he is only in time to see them vanish with all other living matter
in the entity's ray)

