RIKER PATTERSON JAYGORDON MARISSA PICARD DATA

[Jefferies tube]

DATA: Commander, the current cannot be off down
from this relay box. 
RIKER: We can't just sit here. 
DATA: If the energy flowing through that arc were interrupted by a
nonconductive material, it is likely the circuit would be broken. 
RIKER: I don't see any material in here that could handle that much
current. 
DATA: Commander, much of my bodyframe is made up of tripolymers, a non
conductive material. 
RIKER: Are you suggesting we use your own body? 
DATA: Yes, sir. 
RIKER: Data, there's half a million amps flowing through that arc.
Could your body handle that much current? 
DATA: The power surge would cause a system failure in my internal
processors and melt my primary power couplings.
However, there is a chance that the damage would not be irreparable. 
RIKER: No. 
DATA: Commander, our options are very limited. 
RIKER: First of all, android or not, I wouldn't ask anyone to take that
kind of risk. Second, if the computer is not working in Engineering,
I'm going to need your help to get control of the ship. 
DATA: My positronic brain has several layers of shielding to protect me
from power surges. It would be possible for you to remove my cranial
unit and take it with you. 
RIKER: Let me get this straight. You want me to take off your head? 
DATA: Yes, sir. Is something wrong, sir? 
RIKER: Well, Data, would you be all right? 
DATA: My memory core and neural nets are self-contained. I would be
fine, sir. 
RIKER: Well, like you said, our choices are very limited. 
(Data walks forward into the currents, they stop and he falls
forward)
RIKER: Data? Data! Data. 
DATA: A remarkable experience, Commander. 
RIKER: Are you all right? Did the shielding work? 
DATA: Apparently so, sir. My neural nets are still fully operational.
You may begin by opening the ventral access panel located two
centimetres beneath my right ear. 
[Turbolift]

(with Jay Gordon on Picard's shoulders, they get
the hatch open) 
PICARD: Can you climb up? 
JAY GORDON: Yes, I think so. 
PICARD: Good. Now look down the sides of the lift. Can you see two big
clamps? 
JAY GORDON: Yes, I see them. 
PICARD: Can you see if those clamps are attached to long beams inside
big grooves? 
JAY GORDON: Yes. But one of them looks broken. It's half out of the
groove. 
PICARD: All right. Come down. 
(Picard catches him) 
PICARD: All right. Number One, those big clamps are part of the
emergency system. If something goes wrong, they're designed to hold the
turbolift in place. But it would seem that they're damaged. 
MARISSA: Is that why we keep shaking? 
PICARD: That's right. Now, when they give way, we shall fall. So you've
got to get your crew out of here before that happens. Now, there is a
ladder along the wall of the shaft. You can climb up that until you
come to an open doorway. 
MARISSA: What about you? 
PICARD: My ankle is broken. I will just slow you down when you need to
move quickly. Now, you are the leader. And that's an order. 
MARISSA: We have to climb up the shaft. 
PATTERSON: I want to stay here with you, Captain. 
PICARD: Patterson, you're an officer. You have to obey orders. 
PATTERSON: I don't want to be an officer any more. I want to stay here
with you. 
JAY GORDON: If the captain stays here, we won't make it. We'll all die.

PICARD: We don't have time to argue. You must go now. 
MARISSA: The crew has decided to stick together. We all go or we all
stay. 
PICARD: All right. I'll try. But I want you to know this is mutiny.
Now, Number One, look at that control panel. Now, the yellow control
pad, hit that once. Now the one below it, hit twice. Now that should
release the panel underneath. 
MARISSA: Yes, it did. 
PICARD: Now, you can pull it away. 
MARISSA: Okay. 
PICARD: Good. Now, that bundle of wires, that's optical cabling. See
how much of that you can pull out. 
