TROI RO DATA RIKER OBRIEN

[Bridge]

RO: The field strength is down to twenty percent.
We cannot run the risk of staying here any longer. 
O'BRIEN: We're in no danger until it drops below fifteen percent. We
can afford to wait and see if anyone in Engineering notices those
monitors. 
TROI: Have you made preparations to separate the Saucer section? 
RO: Yes, sir. We're in stand by mode for docking latches. 
O'BRIEN: Ensign there's a thermal inversion in the power coupling! 
RO: Quick, cross-connect to the transfer coil. That was close. 
TROI: What happened? 
RO: Exactly what I said might happen. The power coupling overheated and
the entire containment field almost collapsed.
O'Brien's fixed it temporarily, but this could happen again at any
moment, and next time we might not be able to stop it. You
can't let wishful thinking guide your decision, Counsellor. It's time
to leave. 
TROI: We will separate the ship when I decide that it's time, and not
before. Is that clear, Ensign? 
RO: Yes. Perfectly.

[Engineering]

(Data's head is on a shelf, laced up to a panel.
Riker is working on another one) 
RIKER: Okay, try it. 
DATA: Very good, Commander. You have established a connection. I can
now raise the door. 
(the blast door goes up to reveal Geordi's office area all lit up) 
RIKER: There's no power on this entire deck, yet somehow these monitors
are working. 
DATA: The power reaching those monitors has been diverted from the
Bridge, sir. 
RIKER: But why? Unless there's something they want us (pause) something
they need us to see. Wait a minute. Data, the containment field
strength is down to eighteen percent. Can you stabilise it? 
DATA: No, sir. I do not have access to the containment field. You will
have to establish a new link. Locate the ODN conduit, sir. 
(Riker probes Data's exposed circuits) 
RIKER: Got it. 
DATA: Yes, sir. You must now change the input matrix in my secondary
optical port and then connect the ODN conduit. 
(his right eye closes) 
DATA: That is not the correct port, sir. 
RIKER: Sorry. 
DATA: You must hurry, Commander. The containment field has dropped to
sixteen percent. 
RIKER: I'm trying. You need a bigger head. 
DATA: The field continues to drop, sir. Collapse is imminent. 
RIKER: Try it now. 
DATA: I have a connection, sir. I am now stabilising the containment
field. 
