TROI OBRIEN PATTERSON JAYGORDON MARISSA PICARD ALL RO

[Observation lounge]

(Troi is getting the Worst Case Scenario briefing) 
O'BRIEN: If the containment field strength continues to drop at its
present rate, we still have at least two hours before it becomes
critical. 
RO: But you're ignoring the fact that the power coupling is also
damaged. If that coupling overheats, the field strength could drop a
lot faster. We could have a containment breach in a matter of minutes. 
TROI: What do you suggest? 
RO: We should separate the saucer now, and put as much distance as
possible between us and the drive section. 
O'BRIEN: Excuse me, sir, but that's damn cold blooded. What about the
people down there? 
RO: There's no evidence that anyone is still alive in the drive
section. 
O'BRIEN: No evidence they're dead, either. If you were trapped down
there, would you like us to just cut you loose and leave? 
RO: No, of course not. But I also wouldn't expect the bridge crew to
risk the safety of the ship and hundreds of lives in a futile effort to
rescue me. 
TROI: You said there was no way to stabilise the containment field from
the Bridge. Could it be done from Engineering? 
O'BRIEN: Yes, but my readings indicate there's no power down there.
They don't even have monitors to tell them there's a problem. 
TROI: Could we divert energy from the Bridge to those monitors? 
O'BRIEN: Yes, sir. 
RO: I'll say it again. There is no reason to believe that anyone is
alive in Engineering. We're wasting time even talking about this. We
have to separate the ship now. 
TROI: I believe there are still people alive down there and I'm going
to give them every chance. Assuming they're alive, they'll be hoping
there's someone up here who can help them. So we'll help them. Chief,
divert the necessary power to Engineering. 
O'BRIEN: Aye, sir. 
RO: I remind you, Counsellor, that power coupling could overheat at any
moment. By not separating the ship now, you may be responsible for all
our deaths. 
TROI: Thank you, Ensign. Proceed.

[Turboshaft]

(using the optical cable as a rope, the group have
climbed up to the next deck) 
PICARD: I can't open this door. We're going to have to climb up to the
next deck. 
PATTERSON: What if that one doesn't open either? 
JAY GORDON: Then we'll never get out. 
MARISSA: Quiet, both of you. That's an order. 
PICARD: We're going up. Ready? 
MARISSA: Ready, sir. 
(everything shakes) 
PICARD: The lift's falling! Hang on! 
PICARD: We're all right. We're going to keep on climbing. Just don't
look down. 
JAY GORDON: What's wrong? 
MARISSA: He's scared. 
PICARD: We're right with you, Patterson. You're not going to fall.
Everything will be all right if you just keep climbing.
What we need is a climbing song. Marissa, is there a song you sing at
school? 
MARISSA: The Laughing Vulcan and His Dog? 
PICARD: I'm afraid I don't know that one. I know. Frere Jacques. That's
a song I used to sing when I was at school. Patterson, do you know that
one? Good. It goes like this. Frere Jacques, Frere Jacques, dormez
vous? Dormez vous? 
ALL: Sonnez les matines, sonnez les matines, ding ding dong, ding ding
dong. 
PICARD: Very good. Now, keep singing. 
ALL: Frere Jacques, frere Jacques, dormez vous? Dormez vous? Sonnez les
matines, sonnez les matines. Ding ding dong, ding ding dong. Frere
Jacques, frere Jacques, dormez vous? Dormez vous? Sonnez les matines,
sonnez les matines. Ding ding dong, ding ding dong.
Frere Jacques, frere Jacques

