RO TROI OBRIEN CREWMAN WORF RIKER MANDEL KEIKO DATA

[Bridge]

O'BRIEN: This is the Federation Starship Enterprise
calling any vessel within range. We are in distress and need
assistance. Please respond. I'm still not sure we're even transmitting.
I'll set the message on auto repeat and see if we get a response. 
(a turbolift door is forced open, and Ro Laren hauls herself out of the
stuck car) 
O'BRIEN: Are you all right? 
RO: I'm alive. What the hell happened? 
O'BRIEN: We were hit by a quantum filament. Most of our systems are
down and we haven't been able to contact anyone off the bridge. 
RO: Well, don't count on leaving through there. An emergency bulkhead
closed just beneath that lift. 
O'BRIEN: Confinement mode. 
RO: Right. Isolation protocol. 
TROI: I'm not really familiar with that protocol. 
O'BRIEN: If the computer senses a hull breach, it automatically closes
emergency bulkheads to isolate the breach. Until we can clear those
bulkheads, we'll be cut off from the rest of the ship. 
MANDEL: I have partial sensors back online. I'm picking up sporadic
life signs throughout the saucer section. There are definitely
survivors. 
O'BRIEN: What about Ten Forward? 
RO: Ten Forward? 
O'BRIEN: My wife's there. 
MANDEL: I'm sorry, Chief. The readings are not that specific. 
RO: Can you scan the drive section? 
MANDEL: I'm not reading any life signs in the drive section. 
RO: Could the sensors be malfunctioning? 
MANDEL: There's no way to know. Without the main computer, I can't run
a full diagnostic. 
O'BRIEN: Can you sense anything, Counsellor? 
TROI: There are a lot of people still alive. Many of them are hurt but
I can't tell where they are. 
RO: We need to start emergency procedures. Who's the duty officer? 
O'BRIEN: Lieutenant Monroe was in command, but she's dead. I believe
Counsellor Troi is the senior officer on the deck. 
RO: Counsellor Troi? 
O'BRIEN: She carries the rank of Lieutenant Commander. 
TROI: I'd appreciate some suggestions. 
O'BRIEN: I recommend we initiate emergency procedure alpha two. Bypass
computer control and place all systems on manual override. 
TROI: Very well. 
O'BRIEN: Aye, aye, sir. 
RO: May I suggest that our next priority be to stabilise life support
and try to re-establish intership communications? 
TROI: Yes. Mister Mandel, I'd like you to assist Ensign Ro. 
MANDEL: Yes, sir.

[Ten Forward]

(the place is a wreck) 
RIKER: How do you feel? 
KEIKO: Okay. A little foggy. 
RIKER: Just lie still for a while. We'll get you to Sickbay as soon as
we can. 
KEIKO: Okay. 
RIKER: Report. 
DATA: I have surveyed all the turbolifts and service crawlways on this
deck. Access to the Bridge has been completely severed by emergency
bulkheads. 
WORF: Sickbay? 
DATA: Heavy damage to section twenty three A has cut off access to
Sickbay. I have ordered a security team to bring casualties here until
further notice. 
RIKER: I think we should assume the worst, that everyone on the Bridge
is dead. There's
no one is in control of the ship. 
DATA: In that circumstance, re-establishing control should be our top
priority. 
RIKER: Agreed. Can we get to Engineering? 
DATA: Yes, sir. The most direct route is blocked, but I believe we can
use a starboard service crawlway. 
RIKER: Okay, you and I will try to get there. Mister Worf, this room is
going to fill with wounded in a few minutes and they're going to need
help. I want you to stay in charge here. 
WORF: Yes, sir. 
RIKER: Let's go. 
(a man carries a woman in) 
WORF: Over here. 
CREWMAN: Yes, sir. 
