TROI RO CRUSHER LAFORGE OBRIEN

[Cargo bay]

CRUSHER: We can withstand this level of radiation
for another three or four hours without any permanent damage. We'll
need a few days of hyronalin treatments. 
LAFORGE: What are the radiation levels in the quaratum? 
CRUSHER: They're at eighty three rads and rising at a rate of about
four rads per minute. 
LAFORGE: That stuff gets unstable at around three hundred and fifty
rads. I still
haven't been able to get any power to this transporter. 
CRUSHER: The radiation levels is about twenty percent lower at this end
of the bay. Let's move the containers over to here. 
LAFORGE: That's a good idea. It should buy us some time. You know we're
going to have to do this by hand. With all the radiation floating
around in here we can't trust the antigrav units.

[Bridge]

(at a rear science station) 
O'BRIEN: There. Just before the second time we were hit. See the
subspace distortion? 
TROI: Yes. How big is a quantum filament? 
O'BRIEN: It can be hundreds of metres long, but it has almost no mass,
which makes it very difficult to detect. 
TROI: So, it's like a cosmic string? 
O'BRIEN: No. that's a completely different phenomenon. 
(another station comes online) 
O'BRIEN: How did you do that? 
RO: I diverted power from the phaser array and I dumped it into the
engineering control system. 
O'BRIEN: You what? 
RO: Engineering station's online, Counsellor. 
O'BRIEN: But that's a completely improper procedure. You can't just
dump that much raw energy into a bridge terminal without blowing 
RO: We're not going to get out of this by playing it safe. 
TROI: What is our engine status, Ensign? 
RO: We've got half impulse power available, but I'm getting some odd
readings from the warp drive. I'm reading a spike in the warp field
array. It looks like a containment deviation. 
O'BRIEN: Switch to primary bypass. 
RO: Nothing. Field strength's at forty percent and falling. We've got a
problem. The quantum resonance of the filament caused a polarity shift
in the antimatter containment field. 
O'BRIEN: When the filament hit us, the ship was momentarily charged, as
if it had come into contact with a live electrical wire. 
RO: That weakened the containment field surrounding the antimatter
pods. The field strength is at forty percent and it is still falling. 
O'BRIEN: If it falls to fifteen percent the field will collapse and
we'll have a containment breach. 
TROI: Which means? 
RO: Which means the ship will explode.

