TROI RO DATA RIKER OBRIEN

[Bridge]

(at a rear science station) 
O'BRIEN: There. Just before the second time we were hit. See the
subspace distortion? 
TROI: Yes. How big is a quantum filament? 
O'BRIEN: It can be hundreds of metres long, but it has almost no mass,
which makes it very difficult to detect. 
TROI: So, it's like a cosmic string? 
O'BRIEN: No. that's a completely different phenomenon. 
(another station comes online) 
O'BRIEN: How did you do that? 
RO: I diverted power from the phaser array and I dumped it into the
engineering control system. 
O'BRIEN: You what? 
RO: Engineering station's online, Counsellor. 
O'BRIEN: But that's a completely improper procedure. You can't just
dump that much raw energy into a bridge terminal without blowing 
RO: We're not going to get out of this by playing it safe. 
TROI: What is our engine status, Ensign? 
RO: We've got half impulse power available, but I'm getting some odd
readings from the warp drive. I'm reading a spike in the warp field
array. It looks like a containment deviation. 
O'BRIEN: Switch to primary bypass. 
RO: Nothing. Field strength's at forty percent and falling. We've got a
problem. The quantum resonance of the filament caused a polarity shift
in the antimatter containment field. 
O'BRIEN: When the filament hit us, the ship was momentarily charged, as
if it had come into contact with a live electrical wire. 
RO: That weakened the containment field surrounding the antimatter
pods. The field strength is at forty percent and it is still falling. 
O'BRIEN: If it falls to fifteen percent the field will collapse and
we'll have a containment breach. 
TROI: Which means? 
RO: Which means the ship will explode.

[Jefferies tube]

DATA: Commander, the current cannot be off down
from this relay box. 
RIKER: We can't just sit here. 
DATA: If the energy flowing through that arc were interrupted by a
nonconductive material, it is likely the circuit would be broken. 
RIKER: I don't see any material in here that could handle that much
current. 
DATA: Commander, much of my bodyframe is made up of tripolymers, a non
conductive material. 
RIKER: Are you suggesting we use your own body? 
DATA: Yes, sir. 
RIKER: Data, there's half a million amps flowing through that arc.
Could your body handle that much current? 
DATA: The power surge would cause a system failure in my internal
processors and melt my primary power couplings.
However, there is a chance that the damage would not be irreparable. 
RIKER: No. 
DATA: Commander, our options are very limited. 
RIKER: First of all, android or not, I wouldn't ask anyone to take that
kind of risk. Second, if the computer is not working in Engineering,
I'm going to need your help to get control of the ship. 
DATA: My positronic brain has several layers of shielding to protect me
from power surges. It would be possible for you to remove my cranial
unit and take it with you. 
RIKER: Let me get this straight. You want me to take off your head? 
DATA: Yes, sir. Is something wrong, sir? 
RIKER: Well, Data, would you be all right? 
DATA: My memory core and neural nets are self-contained. I would be
fine, sir. 
RIKER: Well, like you said, our choices are very limited. 
(Data walks forward into the currents, they stop and he falls
forward)
RIKER: Data? Data! Data. 
DATA: A remarkable experience, Commander. 
RIKER: Are you all right? Did the shielding work? 
DATA: Apparently so, sir. My neural nets are still fully operational.
You may begin by opening the ventral access panel located two
centimetres beneath my right ear. 
