WESLEY ROBIN

[Ten Forward]

ROBIN: When your parents are the only plasma
specialists in the sector, you do a lot of travelling around. We went
from base to base to base. I felt like a piece of luggage after a
while. I spent all of my time around technical gear. My first friend
was a tricorder. 
WESLEY: Really? My very first friend was a warp coil. 
ROBIN: My parents work came first. They didn't really have time for me,
even when I needed them. So that's how I learned my first law. Law One.
You can only count on yourself. 
WESLEY: Sounds kind of lonely. Well, now you're here. 
ROBIN: Now I'm here. 
WESLEY: Well, I'm glad. 
ROBIN: You wouldn't believe what's going on in Engineering. Commander
La Forge and all the others, they're crazy about some new game. 
WESLEY: Yeah, what kind of game is it? 
ROBIN: It's some Risian gadget that fits over your ear. 
WESLEY: Have you played it? 
ROBIN: Not yet. 
WESLEY: My mom has one. She keeps trying to get me to play it. 
ROBIN: It's everywhere. 
(a crewwoman on a seat by the window is totally lost in the game) 
ROBIN: See what I mean? 
WESLEY: Don't you think that's a little strange? Everybody playing it
all the time. 
ROBIN: It's just a fad. It's here this week. Next week we won't even
know it existed. 
WESLEY: I wonder how it works? 
ROBIN: Why don't you try it and find out? 
WESLEY: I'd like to know a little bit more about it before I try it. 
ROBIN: I bet if we worked together we could figure it out. 
WESLEY: Yeah, we could hook it up to one of the computers. The medical
programs in the lab can be set up to emulate human responses. 
ROBIN: I noticed it uses a visual interface. We could connect it
through an optical sensor.

[Laboratory]

WESLEY: I've loaded the neurological behaviour
programme. This sensor pad should allow the computer to process
whatever information the game sends at it. 
ROBIN: Let's see what happens. 
WESLEY: Okay. 
ROBIN: It's activating the reticular formation. 
WESLEY: There's heavy synaptic activity all over the place. 
ROBIN: I wonder what happens after prolonged exposure? 
WESLEY: Speed up the processor and we'll find out. 
ROBIN: The effect seems centred around the frontal lobe. 
WESLEY: Computer, enhance frontal lobe, full spectrum. 
ROBIN: It's stimulating the septal area. 
WESLEY: That's the pleasure centre of the brain. Whatever this thing
does, it must feel pretty good. 
ROBIN: No wonder it's so popular. 
WESLEY: Look at this. Serotonin levels are way off. Let's run a
neurochemical analysis. 
ROBIN: I'm seeing widespread bonding to neuro-receptors. 
WESLEY: Correct me if I'm wrong, but this looks like a psychotropic
reaction. 
ROBIN: Are you saying you think the game's addictive? 
WESLEY: What's going on in the prefrontal cortex? 
ROBIN: Doesn't that area control higher reasoning? 
WESLEY: Yeah, it sure does. I'd better go talk to the Captain.

