TROI LAFORGE ROBIN RIKER

[Engineering]

RIKER: Geordi, how are you coming with the survey
preparations? 
LAFORGE: I'm up to my neck in observation schedules right now. Our
biggest hurdle is sensor availability. 
RIKER: Especially since two new exobiologists and three stellar
cartographers have joined us from the Zhukov. 
LAFORGE: Fifteen science teams, only two weeks, and one long-range
array don't make for a great combination. 
RIKER: What about the lateral sensors? 
LAFORGE: They're booked solid for planetary observation. 
RIKER: And the gamma ray scanner? 
LAFORGE: We're reprogramming them now. Lefler, a moment of your time,
please? 
(a young brown-haired woman joins them) 
LAFORGE: You know Robin Lefler. 
RIKER: Of course. 
LAFORGE: Her work around here's been so sensational, I've decided to
make her a mission specialist. 
RIKER: Congratulations. 
ROBIN: Thank you, sir. 
RIKER: Okay, specialist, what's our sensor status? 
ROBIN: We're increasing the available bandwidth so more science teams
can use the sensors at once. We figured out a way to do it by
multiplexing the array. 
RIKER: Can we have that done before we arrive? 
ROBIN: Yes, sir. You can count on it. 
RIKER: Keep it up, Lefler. 
(Lefler leaves them) 
RIKER: Geordi, I brought something back from Risa that you have got to
try it. 
LAFORGE: I'd love to, but I'm running a full sensor recalibration in
ten minutes. Can it wait? 
RIKER: Of course. I'll catch up with you later.

[Ten Forward]

(Deanna removes the pointless cherry from the top
of her dessert) 
RIKER: Chocolate ice cream, chocolate fudge and chocolate chips. You're
not depressed, are you? 
TROI: I'm fine, Commander. 
RIKER: Would you like me to leave you two alone? 
TROI: No, you can join us. 
(she offers him a spoon) 
RIKER: No, thanks. I don't like fudge. 
TROI: Really? I never met a chocolate I didn't like. 
RIKER: Doesn't it taste good? 
TROI: Of course it does, but it's not just a matter of taste. It's the
whole experience. First of all, you have to spoon the fudge around the
rim, leaving only ice cream in the middle. Then, you gently spoon the
ice cream around the sides, like you're sculpting it. Relish every
bite. Make every one an event. And then, with the last spoonful, close
your eyes. 
RIKER: I had no idea it was such a ritual. 
TROI: Chocolate is a serious thing. 
RIKER: I brought something back from Risa. Better than chocolate. 
TROI: Oh? What is it? 
RIKER: Just a game.

