WESLEY WOMAN O'BRIEN ROBIN
injured right way working signal let corridor got starting

[Ten Forward]

O'BRIEN: Have you tried this? 
ROBIN: I've tried it, thanks. It's great. 
WESLEY: Robin. 
ROBIN: Where have you been? Everyone's after me to try it. 
WESLEY: I know. I got stopped in the corridor twice. I talked to the
Captain. He's going to look into it. 
ROBIN: I hope he makes a shipwide announcement or something, because
this thing is really starting to give me the creeps. 
WOMAN: Did you forget your games? 
ROBIN: We left them in our quarters. 
WOMAN: Well then, use mine. 
ROBIN: No, thanks. 
WOMAN: Try it. 
WESLEY: She said no thanks. 
(they get up and walk away) 
WESLEY: You know what else is really weird? If this game is so
addictive, there's only one person onboard we can be sure wouldn't be
affected by it. 
ROBIN: Data. 
WESLEY: Right. And he managed to get injured right when the game was
brought on board. We'd better take a look at him.

[Sickbay]

WESLEY: Maybe you should go check again. 
ROBIN: The nurse is still playing the game. 
WESLEY: I don't know what to make of this. There's brain activity all
his systems seem to be working. 
ROBIN: How can that be? He's unconscious. 
WESLEY: Maybe there's a signal breach between his brain and his body.
Let's map his nervous system and see if we can isolate a weak link.
Patch the neural output through to that station. Here. The signal stops
just below his cortex processor. There's some kind of damage. It's
almost undetectable. Let's look at it on the viewer. 
ROBIN: Wesley, look at that. 
WESLEY: It looks like some of his positronic links have been severed. 
ROBIN: The cuts are precise. Look how clean the edges are. Computer,
increase magnification, factor four. 
WESLEY: Only two people on board know enough about Data to do something
like this. Commander La Forge and my mother. 
ROBIN: Why would one of them do this to him? 
WESLEY: Maybe there's more going on here than we thought. What if
someone's trying to use the game for some purpose other than pleasure? 
ROBIN: Then Data would be a threat to that plan. And only with Data out
of the way would everybody become addicted. 
WESLEY: And everyone has. Except us.

