PICARD RIKER DATA LAFORGE ROBIN
added recalibration leaving carrying joins coming catch hand size

[Bridge]

RIKER: It's starting to get busy around here. Five
new science teams just beamed in from the Zhukov. Quarters are filling
up fast. 
PICARD: On top of everything, there's been a change. We've been given
only two weeks to complete the exploration. 
RIKER: Two weeks? That's not enough time to explore a region that size.
I thought we had five weeks. 
DATA: Commander, Starfleet has added a diplomatic mission to Oceanus
Four. 
PICARD: Will, I'm leaving it up to you to make sure that all science
departments have an equal chance of completing their research. 
RIKER: That'll be quite a juggling act. 
PICARD: Oh, and one piece of good news.. We're to rendezvous with a
shuttlecraft carrying Wesley Crusher. He's on vacation from the
Academy. 
RIKER: Wesley? Good. We'll need an extra hand around here.

[Engineering]

RIKER: Geordi, how are you coming with the survey
preparations? 
LAFORGE: I'm up to my neck in observation schedules right now. Our
biggest hurdle is sensor availability. 
RIKER: Especially since two new exobiologists and three stellar
cartographers have joined us from the Zhukov. 
LAFORGE: Fifteen science teams, only two weeks, and one long-range
array don't make for a great combination. 
RIKER: What about the lateral sensors? 
LAFORGE: They're booked solid for planetary observation. 
RIKER: And the gamma ray scanner? 
LAFORGE: We're reprogramming them now. Lefler, a moment of your time,
please? 
(a young brown-haired woman joins them) 
LAFORGE: You know Robin Lefler. 
RIKER: Of course. 
LAFORGE: Her work around here's been so sensational, I've decided to
make her a mission specialist. 
RIKER: Congratulations. 
ROBIN: Thank you, sir. 
RIKER: Okay, specialist, what's our sensor status? 
ROBIN: We're increasing the available bandwidth so more science teams
can use the sensors at once. We figured out a way to do it by
multiplexing the array. 
RIKER: Can we have that done before we arrive? 
ROBIN: Yes, sir. You can count on it. 
RIKER: Keep it up, Lefler. 
(Lefler leaves them) 
RIKER: Geordi, I brought something back from Risa that you have got to
try it. 
LAFORGE: I'd love to, but I'm running a full sensor recalibration in
ten minutes. Can it wait? 
RIKER: Of course. I'll catch up with you later.

