WESLEY RIKER LAFORGE ROBIN

[Data's quarters]

RIKER: Standard security sweep shows nothing out of
the ordinary. 
LAFORGE: Personal logs, diagnostics, duty logs, they all appear normal.
There's no evidence of anything that could lead to Data's shutdown. 
RIKER: Maybe we should ask his cat. 
LAFORGE: I guess I'd better get back to Sickbay, see if there's any
change in his condition. 
RIKER: Doctor Crusher's got everything under control, Geordi. If
there's any change, you'll be the first to know. 
LAFORGE: I guess so. 
RIKER: Looks to me like you need a break. Unwind a little. 
LAFORGE: Yeah, maybe you're right. 
RIKER: I've got just the thing. Why don't you join me in Ten Forward?
There's something I'd like you to try.

[Engineering]

WESLEY: Conduits twelve and twenty two are still
down for testing. 
ROBIN: We can re-route through junction fourteen B. 
WESLEY: You have a funny way of looking at conduit configuration. But
it works. 
ROBIN: That's Law Thirty Six. You've got to go with what works. 
WESLEY: What are all these laws that I keep hearing about? 
ROBIN: They're my personal laws. Every time I learn something
essential, I make up a law about it so I never forget. 
WESLEY: How many do you have? 
ROBIN: A hundred and two so far. 
(they sit at a console) 
ROBIN: Looks like the starboard array needs another subprocessor. 
WESLEY: It'll be online in a few minutes. I'm way ahead of you. 
ROBIN: They said you were good. 
WESLEY: Why do I get the feeling that you already know me? 
ROBIN: I have a few friends at the Academy. Your name's come up a
couple of times. That was really some stung you pulled on Adam Martoni
in the physics lab. I just want to know how you got the antimatter
regulator to spray chili sauce. 
WESLEY: There is another side to that story. 
ROBIN: Is it true what they say about your birthmark? 
WESLEY: This isn't fair. I hardly know anything about you. 
ROBIN: Hey, that's Law Forty six. Life isn't 
WESLEY: Always fair. Yeah, I know that law. I still have to work on the
sensor relays, but I'd like a chance to even the score. Ten Forward,
nineteen hundred hours. Will you join me for coffee? 
ROBIN: No. But I'll meet you for dinner.

Captain's log, supplemental. We have arrived at the
Phoenix Cluster, but it will take us several hours to determine the
best possible location from which to conduct our survey. Commander
Data's condition remains unchanged with no further indication as to the
cause of his collapse.

