WESLEY ROBIN PICARD
neuro effect commander psychotropically cortex allow pleasure don know

[Laboratory]

WESLEY: I've loaded the neurological behaviour
programme. This sensor pad should allow the computer to process
whatever information the game sends at it. 
ROBIN: Let's see what happens. 
WESLEY: Okay. 
ROBIN: It's activating the reticular formation. 
WESLEY: There's heavy synaptic activity all over the place. 
ROBIN: I wonder what happens after prolonged exposure? 
WESLEY: Speed up the processor and we'll find out. 
ROBIN: The effect seems centred around the frontal lobe. 
WESLEY: Computer, enhance frontal lobe, full spectrum. 
ROBIN: It's stimulating the septal area. 
WESLEY: That's the pleasure centre of the brain. Whatever this thing
does, it must feel pretty good. 
ROBIN: No wonder it's so popular. 
WESLEY: Look at this. Serotonin levels are way off. Let's run a
neurochemical analysis. 
ROBIN: I'm seeing widespread bonding to neuro-receptors. 
WESLEY: Correct me if I'm wrong, but this looks like a psychotropic
reaction. 
ROBIN: Are you saying you think the game's addictive? 
WESLEY: What's going on in the prefrontal cortex? 
ROBIN: Doesn't that area control higher reasoning? 
WESLEY: Yeah, it sure does. I'd better go talk to the Captain.

[Ready room]

PICARD: Come. 
WESLEY: Sorry to bother you, sir. 
PICARD: It's no bother, Wesley. Please, sit down. 
WESLEY: Thanks. 
PICARD: How are the survey preparations coming along? 
WESLEY: They're coming along fine, but that's not what I'm here to talk
to you about. 
PICARD: What then? 
WESLEY: There's a game going around. It's something that Commander
Riker brought back from Risa. It's a device that hooks around the ears.

PICARD: Yes, I've seen it. 
WESLEY: I did some preliminary tests on the game, and what I found
leads me to believe that it may have some harmful side-effects.
Specifically, sir, I think it's psychotropically addictive. 
PICARD: Addictive? What have you discovered? 
WESLEY: The game initiates a serotonin cascade in the frontal lobe of
the brain. Now I know that's nothing conclusive, but it could explain
why everyone is so attracted to it. And at the same time, it stimulates
the brain's reasoning centre. I don't know what that's all about. 
PICARD: I'll start an investigation immediately. Thank you, Mister
Crusher. 
WESLEY: Thank you, sir. 
PICARD: Wesley? It's good to have you back again. 
(Wesley leaves, and Picard picks up his headset for a game or three)

