PICARD SPOCK DATA
access play strength means ignore key logic ask voice

[Romulan cavern]

PICARD: You let their emotion sway you. 
SPOCK: On the contrary, I am pursuing the most logical course.
PICARD: You are as sceptical as I am. Is it logical to ignore your own
good sense?
SPOCK: I fear the influence of Sarek has coloured your attitudes,
Captain, toward reunification and perhaps toward me.
PICARD: That is the second time you have accused me of speaking with
another man's voice. It's true he will always be a part of me. His
experiences, his spirit. But I speak with my own voice, not his.
SPOCK: Curious that I should hear him so clearly now that he is dead.
It is possible that I have brought my argument with Sarek to you,
Captain. If so, I apologise.
PICARD: Is it so important that you to win one last argument?
SPOCK: No, it is not. But it is true that I will miss the arguments.
They were, finally, all that we had.
PICARD: But your fight with Sarek is over, Spock, and you have none
with me.
SPOCK: I always had a different vision than my father. The ability to
see beyond pure logic. He considered it weak, but I have discovered it
to be a source of extraordinary strength. Sarek would have seen this
mission of reunification as a fool's errand, but somehow I think it is
not. Logic cannot explain why, I know that I must pursue this. 
PICARD: Even if it leads you into a Romulan trap. 
SPOCK: If the Romulans do have an ulterior motive, it is in the
interests of all concerned that we determine what it is. So, I will
play the role that they would have me play.

[Klingon quarters]

(Data is back to his android self when Spock and
Picard enter) 
PICARD: Have you had any success, Mister Data?
DATA: Negative, Captain. The Romulan Information net employs a
progressive encryption lock. I have been unable to penetrate their
security measures.
SPOCK: May I assist you, Commander? I have had some experience in these
matters.
DATA: By all means, Ambassador.
SPOCK: The Romulans have incorporated a forty three part cipher key
into their entry sequence. 
DATA: Yes, sir, the twenty ninth is the only one I cannot bypass. 
PICARD: I think I'll take this opportunity to remove my ears. 
(Picard leaves) 
SPOCK: He intrigues me, this Picard.
DATA: In what manner, sir?
SPOCK: Remarkably analytical and dispassionate, for a human. I
understand why my father chose to mind-meld with him. There's almost a
Vulcan quality to the man.
DATA: Interesting. I have not considered that. And Captain Picard has
been a role model in my quest to be more human.
SPOCK: More human?
DATA: Yes, Ambassador.
SPOCK: Fascinating. You have an efficient intellect, superior physical
skills and no emotional impediments. There are Vulcans who aspire all
their lives to achieve what you've been given by design.
DATA: You are half human. 
SPOCK: Yes.
DATA: Yet you have chosen a Vulcan way of life. 
SPOCK: I have.
DATA: In effect, you have abandoned what I have sought all my life.
SPOCK: I believe I have isolated the twenty ninth cipher access code. I
shall attempt to access the Proconsul's files.
DATA: Ambassador Spock, may I ask a personal question?
SPOCK: Please.
DATA: As you examine your life, do you find you have missed your
humanity?
SPOCK: I have no regrets.
DATA: No regrets. That is a human expression.
SPOCK: Yes. Fascinating.

