TROI LAFORGE WORF PICARD SELA SPOCK RIKER CRUSHER DATA

[Bridge]

WORF: Sir, sensors are picking up three vessels
crossing the Neutral Zone. Vulcan ships. 
TROI: Vulcan?
RIKER: What's their heading, Mister Worf?
WORF: One four three mark zero one two. 
LAFORGE: That would put them on a course to Vulcan. They don't seem to
be in any hurry. They're only moving at warp one, Commander.
RIKER: Worf, signal them on subspace. Request their status. Geordi, see
if you can tell if it's one of ships we've been looking for.
WORF: They say they are escorting a peace envoy from Romulus to Vulcan.
They request that we monitor Federation subspace channels. Ambassador
Spock will be making an announcement shortly. 
TROI: Perhaps his reunification talks were successful. 
RIKER: Geordi?
LAFORGE: None of the transponder signatures matches that of the missing
ship. They could have been altered. I'll keep checking.
RIKER: Set a course to intercept.
WORF: Sir, the Captain's orders were to maintain 
RIKER: I know the Captain's orders, Lieutenant. Engage.

[Romulan office]

(Sela and her guards enter an empty room) 
SELA: Impossible! There's no way they could have gotten out of this
room. 
RIKER: That's far enough. 
(Riker and two security with phasers) 
RIKER: Stay right where you are. Drop your weapons.
SELA: How did you get in here?
RIKER: Drop your weapons.
(the Romulans shoot at them) 
RIKER: Drop your weapons.
SELA: Cease fire. Holograms. 
(Spock comes out of a presumably holographic wall and neck pinches a
guard. Picard punches the other one) 
SPOCK: I'm afraid I don't know too much about Romulan disruptor
settings.
(Sela surrenders) 
SPOCK: Cowboy diplomacy? 
(the fake wall vanishes) 
PICARD: Well done, Mister Data. Though I don't think you got Commander
Riker's hair quite right.
DATA: I will be more observant in the future, sir.
SELA: It doesn't matter what you do now. Spock's announcement will be
made in minutes. Our forces will be on Vulcan before you can alert
anyone. 
[Bridge]

CRUSHER: We've just received a priority one
distress call from the colony on Dulisian Four. A massive failure of
the environmental support systems. They're going to require evacuation.
RIKER: Mister Worf, any other ships in the vicinity of Dulisian Four? 
WORF: One, sir. A Rutian archaeological vessel.
CRUSHER: I'm sure it's not equipped to handle something of this scale,
Will. 
RIKER: Geordi, any update on the Vulcan ships?
LAFORGE: I've checked every sensor display backwards and forwards. If
the Romulans altered them, they didn't leave any fingerprints. I can't
tie any of them to the surplus yard.
WORF: The Vulcan ships have entered Federation space. Maintaining low
warp.
RIKER: Lay in a new course to Dulisian Four.
WORF: Incoming message from Romulus on all subspace channels.
RIKER: On screen.
SPOCK [on viewscreen]: This is Ambassador Spock of Vulcan. By now,
Federation sensors are tracking three Vulcan ships crossing the Neutral
Zone. These ships carry a Romulan invasion force and must be stopped. I
repeat, these ships carry a Romulan 
(transmission ends) 
RIKER: Doctor, contact Dulisian Four and confirm this distress call. I
have a feeling it may prove to be a false alarm.
Mister Worf, how long before we intercept the Vulcan ships? 
WORF: Fourteen minutes, sir.

