TROI LAFORGE WORF PICARD RIKER SELA SPOCK CRUSHER DATA

[Bridge]

CRUSHER: We've just received a priority one
distress call from the colony on Dulisian Four. A massive failure of
the environmental support systems. They're going to require evacuation.
RIKER: Mister Worf, any other ships in the vicinity of Dulisian Four? 
WORF: One, sir. A Rutian archaeological vessel.
CRUSHER: I'm sure it's not equipped to handle something of this scale,
Will. 
RIKER: Geordi, any update on the Vulcan ships?
LAFORGE: I've checked every sensor display backwards and forwards. If
the Romulans altered them, they didn't leave any fingerprints. I can't
tie any of them to the surplus yard.
WORF: The Vulcan ships have entered Federation space. Maintaining low
warp.
RIKER: Lay in a new course to Dulisian Four.
WORF: Incoming message from Romulus on all subspace channels.
RIKER: On screen.
SPOCK [on viewscreen]: This is Ambassador Spock of Vulcan. By now,
Federation sensors are tracking three Vulcan ships crossing the Neutral
Zone. These ships carry a Romulan invasion force and must be stopped. I
repeat, these ships carry a Romulan 
(transmission ends) 
RIKER: Doctor, contact Dulisian Four and confirm this distress call. I
have a feeling it may prove to be a false alarm.
Mister Worf, how long before we intercept the Vulcan ships? 
WORF: Fourteen minutes, sir.

[Romulan office]

DATA: Communication lines have been terminated at
the transmitter, but I am quite certain the message was sent prior to
the interruption.
PICARD: Well done, Mister Data.
SELA: You'll never get out of this building.
DATA: I disagree, Commander. After studying the design of this
structure, I have determined that our best route of escape would be the
underground exit to the east of this wing. I have disconnected certain
security scanners to assist us. I am afraid we cannot permit you to
warn your guards.
(and Data neck-pinches Sela into unconsciousness) 
SPOCK: Not bad.

[Bridge]

WORF: The Vulcan defence vessels are also
responding. The Romulan force is retreating toward the Neutral Zone. 
RIKER: They're not taking those Vulcan ships home with them. 
WORF: Visual range, Commander.
RIKER: On screen.
LAFORGE: Romulan warbird decloaking alongside the Vulcan ships.
RIKER: Red alert.
(but the green meanie is facing the Vulcan ships) 
RIKER: Advise the warbird to withdraw from Federation space, and tell
them to leave the Vulcan ships where they are.
WORF: The warbird is powering up its forward disruptor array.
RIKER: Ready phasers.
(KaBOOM, kaBOOM, kaBOOM, and the green meanie cloaks again) 
LAFORGE: There were over two thousand Romulan troops on board those
ships.
TROI: They destroyed their own invasion force.
RIKER: Rather than let them be taken prisoner. Stand down Red alert.
Mister Worf, advise the Klingon ship to signal us as soon as Captain
Picard and Data are safely aboard.
WORF: Aye, sir. 
