ROMULAN 1 PICARD SPOCK PARDEK WOMAN 2
play intend senate mission coloured turn logic seen voice

[Romulan caves]

ROMULAN 1: It's everything we could have hoped for.

SPOCK: It is more than we could have hoped for.
PARDEK: But if Neral is ready to publicly endorse reunification. 
PICARD: It's hard to believe that he could rise to the rank of Senate
Proconsul without the support of the Romulan traditionalists.
PARDEK: That may be true.
PICARD: Then how can he turn his back on them so easily? How can he
endorse reunification when it's considered subversive?
ROMULAN 1: Because he's not afraid of them. He knows that we'll support
him. 
SPOCK: Captain Picard is correct. It is not logical for the Proconsul
to support reunification at this time.
WOMAN 2: Why would Neral lie?
PICARD: Perhaps because he's hoping to expose members of your movement.

WOMAN 2: No, this is our chance for acceptance. Finally to be heard.
ROMULAN 1: I believe it's the Federation that fears an alliance between
Romulus and Vulcan.
PICARD: That is not true. 
SPOCK: I came here to determine the potential for reunification. In
spite of what has occurred, I intend to continue with my efforts. I
intend to meet with the Proconsul as planned.

[Romulan cavern]

PICARD: You let their emotion sway you. 
SPOCK: On the contrary, I am pursuing the most logical course.
PICARD: You are as sceptical as I am. Is it logical to ignore your own
good sense?
SPOCK: I fear the influence of Sarek has coloured your attitudes,
Captain, toward reunification and perhaps toward me.
PICARD: That is the second time you have accused me of speaking with
another man's voice. It's true he will always be a part of me. His
experiences, his spirit. But I speak with my own voice, not his.
SPOCK: Curious that I should hear him so clearly now that he is dead.
It is possible that I have brought my argument with Sarek to you,
Captain. If so, I apologise.
PICARD: Is it so important that you to win one last argument?
SPOCK: No, it is not. But it is true that I will miss the arguments.
They were, finally, all that we had.
PICARD: But your fight with Sarek is over, Spock, and you have none
with me.
SPOCK: I always had a different vision than my father. The ability to
see beyond pure logic. He considered it weak, but I have discovered it
to be a source of extraordinary strength. Sarek would have seen this
mission of reunification as a fool's errand, but somehow I think it is
not. Logic cannot explain why, I know that I must pursue this. 
PICARD: Even if it leads you into a Romulan trap. 
SPOCK: If the Romulans do have an ulterior motive, it is in the
interests of all concerned that we determine what it is. So, I will
play the role that they would have me play.

