TROI LAFORGE WORF PICARD SELA SPOCK RIKER HOLO-SPOCK DATA
disruptor ordering die guard words pinches picking hate responded

[Romulan office]

SELA: Come in, gentlemen. Take a seat, please. (she
continues working on a PADD) Excuse me, I'm just finishing up a speech.
For you, Mister Spock. I rather enjoy writing. I don't get to do it
often in this job. 
DATA: Perhaps you would be happier in another job.
SELA: Please feel free to change any words that you wish. I've tried to
make it sound Vulcan. A lot of unnecessarily long words. In a few
hours, you will deliver this statement alongside our Senate Proconsul.
It will announce to the Vulcan people that a peace envoy is on its way
from Romulus. We will transmit it on all Federation subspace
frequencies.
PICARD: Peace envoy, in a stolen Vulcan ship. 
SELA: Actually, three Vulcan ships, Captain. The Enterprise is only
aware of the one we stole from Qualor Two. We have been following your
investigation. It has forced us to make some minor changes. One of
them, a message sent in your name, ordering them to stay where they are.
PICARD: The moment those Vulcan ships appear in the Neutral Zone, the
Enterprise will move to intercept. 
SELA: In that event, the Enterprise will be given more important
matters to attend to. In the meantime, Ambassador Spock will be telling
his people to welcome the peace envoy. And when they do, our forces
will seize control before anyone realises what has happened.
PICARD: Do you seriously believe that the Federation will not
immediately intervene?
SELA: Of course it will, and we're fully prepared for it. But we will
be there, entrenched, and it will be very difficult to get us out once
we are. Reunification will become a fact of life.
SPOCK: I will not read this or any other statement.
SELA: If you do not, you will die. All of you will die.
SPOCK: Since it is logical to conclude that you will kill us in any
event, I choose not to cooperate.
SELA: I hate Vulcans. I hate the logic. I hate the arrogance. Very
well. Computer, holographic
programme Spock One. By taking advantage of holographic sampling during
the last several days, we have created a programmable Spock. Run
programme!
HOLO-SPOCK: This is Ambassador Spock of Vulcan. By now, Federation
sensors are tracking three Vulcan ships crossing the Neutral Zone.
These ships carry the future of the Romulan and Vulcan people. Our long
conflict is finally over. 
SELA: Freeze. We would have preferred an interactive Spock who could
have responded to questions, but this will have to suffice. 
PICARD: You can hardly believe this will convince anyone.
SELA: I don't need to convince them. Just confuse them long enough to
reach Vulcan. End
programme. If you'll excuse me, it's time to send our ships on their
journey. 
(Sela and the guards leave) 
PICARD: Suggestions?
SPOCK: Commander Data, are they still unaware that we have access to
their computers?
DATA: I believe so, Ambassador.
SPOCK: Then perhaps you and I can find a way to create a diversion. 
[Bridge]

WORF: Sir, sensors are picking up three vessels
crossing the Neutral Zone. Vulcan ships. 
TROI: Vulcan?
RIKER: What's their heading, Mister Worf?
WORF: One four three mark zero one two. 
LAFORGE: That would put them on a course to Vulcan. They don't seem to
be in any hurry. They're only moving at warp one, Commander.
RIKER: Worf, signal them on subspace. Request their status. Geordi, see
if you can tell if it's one of ships we've been looking for.
WORF: They say they are escorting a peace envoy from Romulus to Vulcan.
They request that we monitor Federation subspace channels. Ambassador
Spock will be making an announcement shortly. 
TROI: Perhaps his reunification talks were successful. 
RIKER: Geordi?
LAFORGE: None of the transponder signatures matches that of the missing
ship. They could have been altered. I'll keep checking.
RIKER: Set a course to intercept.
WORF: Sir, the Captain's orders were to maintain 
RIKER: I know the Captain's orders, Lieutenant. Engage.

[Romulan office]

(Sela and her guards enter an empty room) 
SELA: Impossible! There's no way they could have gotten out of this
room. 
RIKER: That's far enough. 
(Riker and two security with phasers) 
RIKER: Stay right where you are. Drop your weapons.
SELA: How did you get in here?
RIKER: Drop your weapons.
(the Romulans shoot at them) 
RIKER: Drop your weapons.
SELA: Cease fire. Holograms. 
(Spock comes out of a presumably holographic wall and neck pinches a
guard. Picard punches the other one) 
SPOCK: I'm afraid I don't know too much about Romulan disruptor
settings.
(Sela surrenders) 
SPOCK: Cowboy diplomacy? 
(the fake wall vanishes) 
PICARD: Well done, Mister Data. Though I don't think you got Commander
Riker's hair quite right.
DATA: I will be more observant in the future, sir.
SELA: It doesn't matter what you do now. Spock's announcement will be
made in minutes. Our forces will be on Vulcan before you can alert
anyone. 
