DTAN PICARD SPOCK PARDEK ROMULAN

[Cafe]

(the soldier puts the flower in a glass) 
ROMULAN 1: Allow me to brighten your table. Jolan tru.
SPOCK: The Senate has adjourned. Pardek will be here shortly.
PICARD: How widespread is this movement?
SPOCK: There are groups in every populated area. I've personally spoken
with members from four provinces. It has become a serious concern for
the Romulan leadership.
PICARD: Serious enough for the leaders to suddenly embrace a Vulcan
peace initiative? I have some difficulty in accepting that.
SPOCK: I sense you have a closed mind, Captain. Closed minds have kept
these two worlds apart for centuries. In the Federation, we have
learned from experience to view the Romulans with distrust. We can
either choose to live with that enmity or seek an opportunity to change
it. I choose the latter. 
PICARD: I will be the first to cheer when the Neutral Zone is
abolished. But I wonder if this movement is strong enough to reshape
the entire Romulan political landscape.
SPOCK: One can begin to reshape the landscape with a single flower,
Captain.
D'TAN: Jolan Tru, Mister Spock. Here, look what I've brought you. 
(it is a small book) 
SPOCK: This is my friend, D'Tan. He's very curious about Vulcan. 
PICARD: Hello, D'Tan. 
SPOCK: Where did you get this? This is very old. 
D'TAN: They read to us from it at the meetings. It tells the story of
the Vulcan separation. 
PARDEK: D'Tan, you should not bring that out here. You've been told
many times. 
D'TAN: I just wanted to show it to Mister Spock. 
PARDEK: Off with you. We'll see you later tonight. 
D'TAN: Will you tell us more stories about Vulcan?
SPOCK: Yes, I will. 
D'TAN: Jolan Tru.
PARDEK: Perhaps this is not such a good place to talk. 
[Romulan street]

PARDEK: So, what do you think of your enemy,
Captain Picard?
PICARD: These people are no one's enemy, Senator.
PARDEK: Many of my colleagues fear what they have to say. But I have
learned to listen carefully. Children like D'Tan are our future. Old
men like me will not be able to hold on to ancient prejudice and
hostility. Young people won't allow it. But now, now that they've met
their first real Vulcan, it has only inspired them more. I am sure that
is evident to you, Spock. 
SPOCK: I did not anticipate such a passionate response to my arrival.
PARDEK: Romulans are passionate people. The Vulcans will learn to
appreciate that quality in us.
SPOCK: If we are successful.
PARDEK: We will know soon. The Proconsul has agreed to meet with you.

First Officer's log, stardate 45245.8. The
Enterprise remains at Qualor Two as we continue to investigate the
theft of a surplus Vulcan ship. The trail has led us to the former wife
of a deceased smuggler.

