PICARD SPOCK

[Romulan cavern]

(a sort of living quarters adjoining the cave) 
SPOCK: I know of your mind-meld with my father which enabled him to
complete his last mission.
PICARD: It was an honour. He is a great man.
SPOCK: He was a great representative of the Vulcan people and of the
Federation.
PICARD: I was with him before coming here. He expressed his pride in
you. His love.
SPOCK: Emotional disarray was a symptom of the illness from which he
suffered.
PICARD: No, those feelings came from his heart, Spock. He shared them
with me. I know.
SPOCK: Sarek would no more approve my coming here than you do, Picard.
For some time now, I've been aware of a growing movement here of people
who seek to learn the ideals of the Vulcan philosophy. They've been
declared enemies
of the state. But there are a few in the Romulan hierarchy like Pardek,
who are sympathetic. He asked me to come now, because he believes it
may be time to take the first step toward reunification.
PICARD: Reunification? After so many centuries? After so many
fundamental differences have evolved between your peoples?
SPOCK: It would seem unlikely to succeed, but I cannot ignore the
potential rewards that a union between our two worlds would bring.
PICARD: What is this first step that Pardek suggests?
SPOCK: There is a new Proconsul in the Romulan Senate. He is young and
idealistic. He has promised many reforms. Pardek believes that he may
be receptive to discussing reunification.
PICARD: Why would you not bring something so important to the attention
of your own people or the Federation?
SPOCK: A personal decision, Captain. Perhaps you are aware of the small
role I played in the overture to peace with the Klingons.
PICARD: History is aware of the role you played, Ambassador.
SPOCK: Not entirely. It was I who committed Captain Kirk to that peace
mission, and I who had to bear the responsibility for the
consequences to him and his crew. Quite simply, I am unwilling to risk
anyone's life but my own on this occasion. So I ask you respect my
wishes and leave. 
PICARD: Ambassador, your logic escapes me. If I didn't know better, I
would say that your judgment is influenced by your emotions.
SPOCK: You speak as my father would if he were here, Picard. 
PICARD: I speak as a Starfleet officer, and I cannot ignore the risks
to you. 
SPOCK: I was involved with cowboy diplomacy, as you describe it, long
before you were born.
PICARD: Nevertheless, sir, I'm not prepared to leave until your affairs
are completed.
SPOCK: In your own way, you are as stubborn as another Captain of the
Enterprise I once knew.
PICARD: Then I'm in good company, sir.

