TROI LAFORGE WORF PICARD SELA SPOCK RIKER HOLO-SPOCK DATA PARDEK
holographic die yeah cooperate tru maintain questions hate involves

[Caves]

PICARD: The only communication that was sent were
the numbers one four zero zero.
PARDEK: What does it mean?
SPOCK: It means that the Proconsul has apparently been attempting to
deceive me. For what purpose I cannot say yet.
But his conversations with me have obviously been part of a greater
plan which involves the stolen Vulcan ship.
DATA: How do you know that, Ambassador?
SPOCK: The time the Proconsul set for the subspace announcement of our
peace initiative is fourteen hundred hours tomorrow. One four zero zero.
PARDEK: Why would they need a Vulcan ship?
SELA: That will become clear very shortly. Captain Picard, welcome to
Romulus. I trust you've enjoyed your visit. And this is the android I
have come to respect
in battle. 
DATA: Lieutenant Commander Data.
PARDEK: How could they know of this location? Someone has betrayed us. 
SPOCK: Yes. You did.
PARDEK: Spock, we've been friends for eighty years. 
SPOCK: It is the only logical conclusion. You asked me to Romulus, you
arranged the meetings with the Proconsul, and you knew that Picard and
Data had returned to the surface with new information.
SELA: The great Spock. Very well. Senator Pardek, your service to the
Romulan people is noted and appreciated.
PARDEK: Jolan tru, Spock.
SELA: Do not be distressed. Your dream of reunification is not dead. It
will simply take a different form. The Romulan conquest of Vulcan.
Bring them.

First Officer's log, supplemental. The Enterprise
has reached Galorndon Core, near the border of the Neutral Zone. 
[Bridge]

RIKER: Any signs of life, Mister La Forge?
LAFORGE: Negative, Commander.
TROI: The Romulans could have a cloaked base on the surface. 
RIKER: Or anywhere else along the Neutral Zone.
WORF: Sir, a coded subspace signal from Romulus. It's the Captain. 
TROI: What? 
RIKER: Maintain position at Galorndon Core. Diplomatic initiative
appears to be succeeding. Will advise.
WORF: The message did employ the proper coded sequence.
RIKER: Yeah. I'm sure it did.

[Romulan office]

SELA: Come in, gentlemen. Take a seat, please. (she
continues working on a PADD) Excuse me, I'm just finishing up a speech.
For you, Mister Spock. I rather enjoy writing. I don't get to do it
often in this job. 
DATA: Perhaps you would be happier in another job.
SELA: Please feel free to change any words that you wish. I've tried to
make it sound Vulcan. A lot of unnecessarily long words. In a few
hours, you will deliver this statement alongside our Senate Proconsul.
It will announce to the Vulcan people that a peace envoy is on its way
from Romulus. We will transmit it on all Federation subspace
frequencies.
PICARD: Peace envoy, in a stolen Vulcan ship. 
SELA: Actually, three Vulcan ships, Captain. The Enterprise is only
aware of the one we stole from Qualor Two. We have been following your
investigation. It has forced us to make some minor changes. One of
them, a message sent in your name, ordering them to stay where they are.
PICARD: The moment those Vulcan ships appear in the Neutral Zone, the
Enterprise will move to intercept. 
SELA: In that event, the Enterprise will be given more important
matters to attend to. In the meantime, Ambassador Spock will be telling
his people to welcome the peace envoy. And when they do, our forces
will seize control before anyone realises what has happened.
PICARD: Do you seriously believe that the Federation will not
immediately intervene?
SELA: Of course it will, and we're fully prepared for it. But we will
be there, entrenched, and it will be very difficult to get us out once
we are. Reunification will become a fact of life.
SPOCK: I will not read this or any other statement.
SELA: If you do not, you will die. All of you will die.
SPOCK: Since it is logical to conclude that you will kill us in any
event, I choose not to cooperate.
SELA: I hate Vulcans. I hate the logic. I hate the arrogance. Very
well. Computer, holographic
programme Spock One. By taking advantage of holographic sampling during
the last several days, we have created a programmable Spock. Run
programme!
HOLO-SPOCK: This is Ambassador Spock of Vulcan. By now, Federation
sensors are tracking three Vulcan ships crossing the Neutral Zone.
These ships carry the future of the Romulan and Vulcan people. Our long
conflict is finally over. 
SELA: Freeze. We would have preferred an interactive Spock who could
have responded to questions, but this will have to suffice. 
PICARD: You can hardly believe this will convince anyone.
SELA: I don't need to convince them. Just confuse them long enough to
reach Vulcan. End
programme. If you'll excuse me, it's time to send our ships on their
journey. 
(Sela and the guards leave) 
PICARD: Suggestions?
SPOCK: Commander Data, are they still unaware that we have access to
their computers?
DATA: I believe so, Ambassador.
SPOCK: Then perhaps you and I can find a way to create a diversion. 
