RIKER WORF PICARD BIJIK CRUSHER DATA

[Bridge]

PICARD: Still no response from the Klingons, Mister
Worf?
WORF: No, sir.
PICARD: He's ignoring me. What other explanation is there?
RIKER: Seems after hailing him for three days, he could've found a
minute to talk to you.
WORF: Sir.
PICARD: Yes, Lieutenant?
WORF: I believe I know why our messages are not being answered. Gowron
has been rewriting Klingon history.
RIKER: Rewriting history?
WORF: Yes. He is claiming it was his courage, his genius, which brought
an end to the civil war.
PICARD: I see.
WORF: In the new version there is no mention made of the Federation's
help in his rise to power.
RIKER: If Worf's right, then our arrival would be an uncomfortable
reminder of the facts.
PICARD: He can take all the credit he wants, I don't caret. But I do
need a ship.
Well if Gowron won't talk to me, get someone who will. Somebody on the
High Council. K'Tal, perhaps.
WORF: Yes, sir.
(at the science station) 
DATA: Captain, I have a visual identification of Senator Pardek of
Romulus. This is a Barolian record of a trade negotiation in which
Pardek participated four years ago.
PICARD: That's all?
DATA: Yes, sir. 
PICARD: Run it again. Computer, freeze. Call up the intelligence scan
of Spock on Romulus. Computer, enhance far left figure and compare.
Same man. Pardek. One question answered. What do we know of him?
DATA: He has been in public service since he was a young man, a senator
for nine decades. He is considered a man of the
people. He has sponsored many reforms. Reportedly, Romulan leadership
considers him to be somewhat of a radical because he has been an
advocate of peace throughout his career.
PICARD: I can see why Spock would cultivate a relationship with him.
Where would we find him other than on the floor of the Romulan Senate?
DATA: The district he represents is called the Krocton segment. He
maintains a dwelling there.
PICARD: Thank you, Mister Data.
DATA: There is more, sir. I have taken the liberty of expanding the
parameters of my search, and have discovered that Pardek has
several relatives in the Krocton segment. I believe you will be able to
locate him there on the third day of the Romulan week when the Senate
is not in session.
PICARD: Mister Data, your resourcefulness never ceases to amaze me.
DATA: Thank you, sir.
WORF: Captain, we are being hailed by the Klingon home world.
PICARD: Gowron or K'Tal?
WORF: Neither, sir. It is the junior adjutant to the diplomatic
delegation.
RIKER: Junior adjutant.
PICARD: Name.
WORF: B'iJik, sir.
PICARD: On screen.
B'IJIK [on viewscreen]: Greetings, Captain. I regret to inform you that
Gowron and the High Council are quite busy and won't be able to speak
with you today.
PICARD: Is Gowron aware that we have been transmitting messages for the
past three days?
B'IJIK [on viewscreen]: Captain, Gowron wishes it were possible to talk
with everyone who wants an audience. But he is one man. The demands on
his time are formidable. If you would like me to take him a message. 
PICARD: A message? Very well. Tell Gowron, leader of the High Council
of the Klingon Empire, that his Arbiter of Succession, Jean-Luc Picard,
needs a favour.
B'IJIK [on viewscreen]: A favour?
PICARD: I require a cloaked vessel.
B'IJIK [on viewscreen]: A cloaked vessel. This is no small favour,
Captain.
PICARD: It is for a mission that could have repercussions throughout
the quadrant.
B'IJIK [on viewscreen]: How would it benefit the Klingon Empire? I'm
sure Gowron will ask.
PICARD: The only benefit to the Klingon Empire would be our gratitude.
B'IJIK [on viewscreen]: That is what you want me to tell him? 
PICARD: Yes. And please add that if he is unable to provide a ship,
then I am sure there are others in the Klingon Empire who would be
willing to help me. And then, they would have our gratitude.
B'IJIK [on viewscreen]: I see.
PICARD: Also, please tell him that I am immensely gratified that he is
prospering so well. A tribute to his skilled leadership. 
[Sickbay]

CRUSHER: They're not removable, are they, Data?
DATA: Removable?
CRUSHER: Your ears.
DATA: No, Doctor. They are fully integrated components.
CRUSHER: We'll have to do some moulds of his ears as well.
PICARD: What about his skin colour?
CRUSHER: We'll have to do some tests on his skin pigmentation. Changing
it to appear Romulan shouldn't be too difficult. We just have to make
sure we can change it back again afterwards. Your right eye is point
zero zero four higher than your left.
(Riker enters) 
PICARD: Nobody's perfect, Doctor, but
CRUSHER: If you want a proper fit to your prosthetic, trust your tailor.
PICARD: Anything from Gowron?
RIKER: No, sir. But after your tailor is done, would you join me in the
cargo bay? Mister La Forge has made some progress with the metal
fragments.
CRUSHER: These two still have an appointment with Mister Mott to have
their hairpieces designed.
PICARD: Thirty minutes, Number One.

