PICARD PERRIN RIKER LAFORGE SAREK
stolen pain look listened live emotions high record benefit

[Cargo bay]

(bits of twisted metal all over the place) 
RIKER: The Vulcans haven't figure out what these fragments are but
they've determined that the metal is a dentarium alloy.
LAFORGE: That pretty well indicates that they're Vulcan. And dentarium
also means that whatever this was, it was originally designed
for use in space. From the look of the damage, it must've been a high
speed impact.
RIKER: Yeah. A Ferengi cargo ship that went down in the Hanolin
asteroid belt. The debris was spread over a hundred square kilometres. 
LAFORGE: Could it be a weapons array?
RIKER: That was my first thought, but the Vulcans have no record of any
stolen weapons or stolen parts, for that matter.
LAFORGE: This is going to be like putting together a big jigsaw puzzle
when you don't know even know what the picture's supposed to be. 
RIKER: Yep. 
[Sarek's chamber]

(on a hard, flat bed, an elderly man with dementia
writhes and moans to himself) 
PERRIN: He is like this most of the time. His emotions have taken over.
Sometimes, I can bring him out of it. Sarek! You will listen!
SAREK: Go from me!
PERRIN: Picard is here.
SAREK: No more chaos! No more. 
PERRIN: I will leave you alone with him. He will either acknowledge you
or he won't.
(Perrin leaves) 
PICARD: Sarek! I've come a long way to see you.
SAREK: I will not answer! 
PICARD: I must speak to you about your son. 
SAREK: I wish no one with me. 
PICARD: About Spock.
SAREK: Spock?
PICARD: Yes. He's missing.
SAREK: Is that you, Picard?
PICARD: Hello, old friend.
SAREK: You're here, on Vulcan.
PICARD: I need your help. I must find Spock.
SAREK: He's not here.
PICARD: I know. He's been reported on Romulus.
SAREK: On Romulus? 
PICARD: Yes. 
SAREK: why?
PICARD: I had hoped to find that out from you.
SAREK: On Romulus? You're going there, aren't you? To find him.
(Sarek gets out of bed) 
PICARD: Yes. Do you have any idea what might have taken him to Romulus?
SAREK: No.
PICARD: Is there anyone on Romulus he might know, or choose to contact?
SAREK: Pardek? 
PICARD: Who is Pardek?
SAREK: It could be Pardek.
PICARD: Who is Pardek?
SAREK: He is a Romulan Senator. Spock has maintained a relationship
with him over the years. I don't know how they met. At the Khitomer
Conference, I'd imagine.
PICARD: Pardek represented Romulus?
SAREK: Yes, I'm sure he did. In fact, I recall Spock coming to me with
optimism about a continuing dialogue with the Romulans. I told him it
was illogical to maintain such an expectation. Spock was always so
impressionable. This Romulan, Pardek, had no support at home. Of
course, in the end I was proven correct. I gave Spock the benefit of
experience, of logic. He never listened. Never listened.
PICARD: It's been suggested that Spock might have defected.
SAREK: Never! I will accept many things, but never that.
PICARD: But you believe he might have gone there to see Pardek? 
SAREK: The Romulan Senator? How do you know Pardek?
PICARD: I've heard of him.
SAREK: That's what he's done. He's gone to see Pardek.
PICARD: Do you know what business they might have together?
SAREK: No. I never knew what Spock was doing. When he was a boy, he
would disappear for days into the mountains.
I asked him where he had gone, what he had done, he refused to tell me.
I insisted that he tell me. He would not. I forbade
him to go. He ignored me. I punished him. He endured it, silently. But
always he returned to the mountains. One might as well ask the river
not to run. (lies down again) But secretly I admired him, the proud
core of him that would not yield. 
PICARD: Sarek, we're a part of each other. I know that he has caused
you pain but I also know that you love him.
SAREK: Tell him, Picard. 
(Sarek tries to make the hand signal, but Picard has to put his fingers
into the correct positions) 
PICARD: Peace and long life.
SAREK: Live long and and. Live long and. Spock. My son.
PICARD: And prosper.

Captain's log, stardate 45240.1. To cross the
Neutral Zone, I will require a cloaked ship. To that end, I have set a
course for the Klingon home world. After all we did for Gowron during
the recent war, I am certain he will be happy to return a favour.

