LADY WOMAN ROMULAN 1 PICARD DATA PARDEK MAN
kilometres look hour able optical location services corner haven

[Romulan street]

DATA: This is definitely the street on which the
intelligence scan of Spock and Pardek was taken, sir. Adjusting for the
optical distortions, I am able to verify the architectural features.
PICARD: Where were they standing? Data, you're moving about in a very,
well, android way.
DATA: I am sorry, Captain. I will be more careful.
PICARD: Don't call me Captain.
DATA: I understand, sir. I have found the place where they were
standing. 
PICARD: Where?
DATA: It is here, at this doorway. A legal intercessor's office. The
name is similar to Pardek's. It would appear to be one of his relatives.
(Picard knocks, then tries the handle) 
PICARD: He's not open for business yet. 
DATA: Nonetheless, I recommend we keep this location under observation.
I have clearly determined
Pardek's routine. On days when the Senate is not in session, he
invariably comes to this section after the median hour.
PICARD: Very well. Let's sample the local cuisine, shall we?

[Cafe]

(an old woman brings two bowls to their table, no
chairs) 
PICARD: Do you happen to know what time the intercessor's office across
the way opens?
WOMAN: Why do you want to know?
PICARD: I need his services. He was recommended.
WOMAN: I haven't seen you here before.
DATA: We are here for the day, from the city of Rateg.
WOMAN: Rateg? I don't think so.
DATA: Why do you say that?
WOMAN: You don't sound like you're from Rateg.
DATA: It is a misconception that all Rategs speak with a particular
inflection. In fact, there are twelve different 
PICARD: We come from several kilometres outside the city.
WOMAN: Or perhaps you come from the security forces to watch the
intercessor's office. Is he in trouble?
PICARD: You're mistaken, madam. 
WOMAN: Doesn't matter to me. I don't know when he opens. Eat your soup,
courtesy of a loyal establishment. Jolan tru.
(from the look on Picard's face, the soup is horrible) 
PICARD: I don't think we can stay here too long.
DATA: We may not have to. Direct your view to the far corner, sir. 
MAN: Very good, Senator. 
LADY: Senator, we seem to be having some problems 
DATA: Is that not Pardek?
PICARD: I believe it is. 
DATA: Perhaps you should appear to enjoy your soup, sir.
PARDEK: (to lady) I'll take care of that. Come. 
(Picard and Data follow Pardek, and are stopped by two armed soldiers) 
ROMULAN 1: Do not move.
PICARD: What? You've made a mistake.
ROMULAN 1: Quiet. Come with us. 
