RIKER WORF PICARD PERRIN SAREK BIJIK DATA

[Sarek's chamber]

(on a hard, flat bed, an elderly man with dementia
writhes and moans to himself) 
PERRIN: He is like this most of the time. His emotions have taken over.
Sometimes, I can bring him out of it. Sarek! You will listen!
SAREK: Go from me!
PERRIN: Picard is here.
SAREK: No more chaos! No more. 
PERRIN: I will leave you alone with him. He will either acknowledge you
or he won't.
(Perrin leaves) 
PICARD: Sarek! I've come a long way to see you.
SAREK: I will not answer! 
PICARD: I must speak to you about your son. 
SAREK: I wish no one with me. 
PICARD: About Spock.
SAREK: Spock?
PICARD: Yes. He's missing.
SAREK: Is that you, Picard?
PICARD: Hello, old friend.
SAREK: You're here, on Vulcan.
PICARD: I need your help. I must find Spock.
SAREK: He's not here.
PICARD: I know. He's been reported on Romulus.
SAREK: On Romulus? 
PICARD: Yes. 
SAREK: why?
PICARD: I had hoped to find that out from you.
SAREK: On Romulus? You're going there, aren't you? To find him.
(Sarek gets out of bed) 
PICARD: Yes. Do you have any idea what might have taken him to Romulus?
SAREK: No.
PICARD: Is there anyone on Romulus he might know, or choose to contact?
SAREK: Pardek? 
PICARD: Who is Pardek?
SAREK: It could be Pardek.
PICARD: Who is Pardek?
SAREK: He is a Romulan Senator. Spock has maintained a relationship
with him over the years. I don't know how they met. At the Khitomer
Conference, I'd imagine.
PICARD: Pardek represented Romulus?
SAREK: Yes, I'm sure he did. In fact, I recall Spock coming to me with
optimism about a continuing dialogue with the Romulans. I told him it
was illogical to maintain such an expectation. Spock was always so
impressionable. This Romulan, Pardek, had no support at home. Of
course, in the end I was proven correct. I gave Spock the benefit of
experience, of logic. He never listened. Never listened.
PICARD: It's been suggested that Spock might have defected.
SAREK: Never! I will accept many things, but never that.
PICARD: But you believe he might have gone there to see Pardek? 
SAREK: The Romulan Senator? How do you know Pardek?
PICARD: I've heard of him.
SAREK: That's what he's done. He's gone to see Pardek.
PICARD: Do you know what business they might have together?
SAREK: No. I never knew what Spock was doing. When he was a boy, he
would disappear for days into the mountains.
I asked him where he had gone, what he had done, he refused to tell me.
I insisted that he tell me. He would not. I forbade
him to go. He ignored me. I punished him. He endured it, silently. But
always he returned to the mountains. One might as well ask the river
not to run. (lies down again) But secretly I admired him, the proud
core of him that would not yield. 
PICARD: Sarek, we're a part of each other. I know that he has caused
you pain but I also know that you love him.
SAREK: Tell him, Picard. 
(Sarek tries to make the hand signal, but Picard has to put his fingers
into the correct positions) 
PICARD: Peace and long life.
SAREK: Live long and and. Live long and. Spock. My son.
PICARD: And prosper.

Captain's log, stardate 45240.1. To cross the
Neutral Zone, I will require a cloaked ship. To that end, I have set a
course for the Klingon home world. After all we did for Gowron during
the recent war, I am certain he will be happy to return a favour.

[Bridge]

PICARD: Still no response from the Klingons, Mister
Worf?
WORF: No, sir.
PICARD: He's ignoring me. What other explanation is there?
RIKER: Seems after hailing him for three days, he could've found a
minute to talk to you.
WORF: Sir.
PICARD: Yes, Lieutenant?
WORF: I believe I know why our messages are not being answered. Gowron
has been rewriting Klingon history.
RIKER: Rewriting history?
WORF: Yes. He is claiming it was his courage, his genius, which brought
an end to the civil war.
PICARD: I see.
WORF: In the new version there is no mention made of the Federation's
help in his rise to power.
RIKER: If Worf's right, then our arrival would be an uncomfortable
reminder of the facts.
PICARD: He can take all the credit he wants, I don't caret. But I do
need a ship.
Well if Gowron won't talk to me, get someone who will. Somebody on the
High Council. K'Tal, perhaps.
WORF: Yes, sir.
(at the science station) 
DATA: Captain, I have a visual identification of Senator Pardek of
Romulus. This is a Barolian record of a trade negotiation in which
Pardek participated four years ago.
PICARD: That's all?
DATA: Yes, sir. 
PICARD: Run it again. Computer, freeze. Call up the intelligence scan
of Spock on Romulus. Computer, enhance far left figure and compare.
Same man. Pardek. One question answered. What do we know of him?
DATA: He has been in public service since he was a young man, a senator
for nine decades. He is considered a man of the
people. He has sponsored many reforms. Reportedly, Romulan leadership
considers him to be somewhat of a radical because he has been an
advocate of peace throughout his career.
PICARD: I can see why Spock would cultivate a relationship with him.
Where would we find him other than on the floor of the Romulan Senate?
DATA: The district he represents is called the Krocton segment. He
maintains a dwelling there.
PICARD: Thank you, Mister Data.
DATA: There is more, sir. I have taken the liberty of expanding the
parameters of my search, and have discovered that Pardek has
several relatives in the Krocton segment. I believe you will be able to
locate him there on the third day of the Romulan week when the Senate
is not in session.
PICARD: Mister Data, your resourcefulness never ceases to amaze me.
DATA: Thank you, sir.
WORF: Captain, we are being hailed by the Klingon home world.
PICARD: Gowron or K'Tal?
WORF: Neither, sir. It is the junior adjutant to the diplomatic
delegation.
RIKER: Junior adjutant.
PICARD: Name.
WORF: B'iJik, sir.
PICARD: On screen.
B'IJIK [on viewscreen]: Greetings, Captain. I regret to inform you that
Gowron and the High Council are quite busy and won't be able to speak
with you today.
PICARD: Is Gowron aware that we have been transmitting messages for the
past three days?
B'IJIK [on viewscreen]: Captain, Gowron wishes it were possible to talk
with everyone who wants an audience. But he is one man. The demands on
his time are formidable. If you would like me to take him a message. 
PICARD: A message? Very well. Tell Gowron, leader of the High Council
of the Klingon Empire, that his Arbiter of Succession, Jean-Luc Picard,
needs a favour.
B'IJIK [on viewscreen]: A favour?
PICARD: I require a cloaked vessel.
B'IJIK [on viewscreen]: A cloaked vessel. This is no small favour,
Captain.
PICARD: It is for a mission that could have repercussions throughout
the quadrant.
B'IJIK [on viewscreen]: How would it benefit the Klingon Empire? I'm
sure Gowron will ask.
PICARD: The only benefit to the Klingon Empire would be our gratitude.
B'IJIK [on viewscreen]: That is what you want me to tell him? 
PICARD: Yes. And please add that if he is unable to provide a ship,
then I am sure there are others in the Klingon Empire who would be
willing to help me. And then, they would have our gratitude.
B'IJIK [on viewscreen]: I see.
PICARD: Also, please tell him that I am immensely gratified that he is
prospering so well. A tribute to his skilled leadership. 
