RIKER DOKACHIN LAFORGE WORF PICARD DATA
illness la normal mark thought moment identify banks difficult

[Bridge]

WORF: Commander, sensors detect a ship approaching
at warp speed.
RIKER: Identification?
WORF: Negative. No transponder signal, no subspace marker. 
LAFORGE: Sounds like they don't want to be identified.
WORF: The ship is coming out of warp, sir. 
RIKER: On screen.
LAFORGE: Sensors indicate a combat vessel, origin undetermined, heavily
armed. Mass and density suggest that it's fully loaded with
cargo. I'd say from these internal scans, a good deal of that cargo is
weaponry.
WORF: The ship is entering sector twelve delta four 
DOKACHIN: He's taking the position assigned to the Tripoli. The
coordinates are identical.
LAFORGE: Commander, readings indicate surface to ship transport has
begun.
RIKER: Mister La Forge, bring the engines back online and restore all
systems to normal.
LAFORGE: Aye, sir.
WORF: He's powering up engines, turning to starboard.
RIKER: Open a channel.
WORF: Open.
RIKER: This is Commander William Riker of the USS Enterprise. Identify
yourself. I repeat, you have entered a Federation depot. Identify
yourself.
WORF: Sir, the ship is locking phasers.
RIKER: Shields up. Red alert.
LAFORGE: That ship easily matches our armament, Commander.
WORF: It's coming about.
RIKER: If you do not respond to our hails, we will take that as
evidence of hostile action.
WORF: There is an energy build up in their phaser banks. Sir, they're
activating weapons. 
(thump) 
WORF: Forward shields down to seventy two percent.
RIKER: Boost power to the shields. 
LAFORGE: Aye, sir.
RIKER: Mister Worf, lock onto their weapon systems only and prepare to
fire. 
(Enterprise takes more hits) 
WORF: Forward shields down to sixty eight percent, aft shields forty
percent.
RIKER: On my mark, point seven five burst. We just want to get their
attention.
WORF: Ready, sir.
RIKER: Fire.
WORF: Their forward shields are damaged, sir. 
LAFORGE: We destroyed one of their phaser arrays. Looks like collateral
damage in the cargo area. Commander, I'm picking up massive power
fluctuations, internal explosions. With all the armament that ship is
carrying, it's going to blow. 
(KaBOOM. Geordi was right)

[Klingon quarters]

PICARD: Well, Mister Data? What do you think?
(They are both now Romulan) 
DATA: I would not have thought it possible, sir. I am eager to test the
success of our efforts. It does
remain to be seen if the Romulans will accept us. Captain, you have
seemed unusually pensive since we received the news of Ambassador
Sarek's death.
PICARD: Sarek and I share a particular bond. Our lives touched in an
unusual way. I admit I feel the effects of his death. The tenor of this
mission has changed, Mister Data, at least it has for me. We were sent
to confront Spock about his disappearance. Now, I also have to tell him
that his father is dead.
DATA: I do not entirely understand, sir. As a Vulcan, Ambassador Spock
would simply see death as the logical result of his father's illness. 
PICARD: It's never quite that simple, not even for a Vulcan. Certainly
not for Spock who is half-human. Years spent in conflict. And now the
chance to resolve all of those differences is gone.
DATA: Considering the exceptionally long lifespan of Vulcans, it does
seem odd that Sarek and Spock did not choose to resolve those
differences in the time allowed.
PICARD: Father and son. Both proud, both stubborn, more alike than
either of them were prepared to admit. A lifetime spent building
emotional barriers. They're very difficult to break down. And now the
time has come, it's too late. It's a difficult moment. It's a lonely
one. It's a moment Spock is about to face.

