MOSELEY [on viewscreen] TROI LAFORGE WORF RIKER [OC] PICARD LAFORGE [OC] RIKER RASMUSSEN LAFORGE [on viewscreen] MOSELEY WORF [OC] ENSIGN CRUSHER DATA LAFORGE [on monitor]
prime play directive safe allows years born occasion saved

[Penthara Science lab]

LAFORGE: Talking. We've got some new temperatures
coming in. 
MOSELEY: All thermal monitoring stations are reporting no further
temperature drops. 
LAFORGE: Correction, Doctor. Two equatorial stations are showing slight
increases. 
MOSELEY: Thank you. Thank you all. You've given us what we need. Time.

[Bridge]

PICARD: We're glad to be of help, Doctor. The
Enterprise will remain in orbit and continue to monitor your progress.
Picard out. 
RASMUSSEN: You've given us what we need. Time. 
PICARD: Ensign, return to synchronous orbit. 
ENSIGN: Aye, sir. 
RASMUSSEN: Very clever, Picard. And well done. We've always known how
you did it, but to experience the moment, to witness the nuances, it's
indescribable. 
[Sickbay]

(Beverly is treating an injured knee) 
TROI: He's after more than a history lesson. I can tell you that. 
CRUSHER: What is it? What are you getting from him? 
TROI: I don't know. It's like he's trying to confuse us, misdirect us
somehow. 
(Rasmussen enters) 
RASMUSSEN: There you are. Well, that certainly was exciting, wasn't it?

CRUSHER: Professor, is everything alright? Are you well? 
RASMUSSEN: Yes, couldn't be better, thank you. I just thought we might
chat about your questionnaire. Buck up, crewman. You're a credit to
that uniform. 
TROI: I've got some things to take care of. 
RASMUSSEN: No, please, Counsellor. I would very much appreciate your
remaining. 
RASMUSSEN: Doctor, in response to my sixth question, you spoke of a
neural stimulator. May I see one? 
CRUSHER: I don't see why not. Give me a minute. 
(Beverly leaves) 
RASMUSSEN: You don't like me very much, do you? 
TROI: I don't dislike you, Professor. 
RASMUSSEN: (to a young boy) Keep your eyes wide, soldier. You'll be
telling your grandchildren how you were there at Penthara Four. But you
don't trust me. You should, you know. 
TROI: Should I? 
RASMUSSEN: Picard's empath won't trust you. That's what they all said. 
TROI: Picard's empath? 
RASMUSSEN: We're not that unalike, you and I. You possess a sense that
is foreign to the others. My knowledge of the future is similar. You
know, some of my best friends are empaths. They trust me. 
TROI: Why should you care whether I trust you or not? 
RASMUSSEN: We're birds of a feather. We're colleagues. We could learn a
lot from each other. 
TROI: You're right. I don't trust you. 
RASMUSSEN: I knew you'd say that. 
TROI: I'm sure you did. 
(Beverly returns with the equipment) 
CRUSHER: Well, it's nice to see you two are finally getting along. 
TROI: I really have to be going. 
(Troi leaves and Beverly hands the wand device to Rasmussen) 
RASMUSSEN: Thank you. 
CRUSHER: (reading a PADD from a nurse) Why don't you try a berylite
scan? I'd be interested to see where his micro-levels are. 
(the nurse leaves them) 
CRUSHER: So, what else can I show you? 
RASMUSSEN: You're a very curious woman. No, no, I don't mean curious
like that. I mean you're curious about things. About berylite levels,
about the future. 
CRUSHER: Well, curiosity is why all of us are out here, isn't it? 
RASMUSSEN: I understand. But you're different, you're more vibrant.
More 
CRUSHER: More vibrant. That's nice, I like that. 
RASMUSSEN: You know, whenever I travel back, I meet very interesting
people, men and women. But I've never anyone who gave me thoughts about
not going home. 
CRUSHER: You're not supposed to be influencing the past, remember? And
I am beginning to feel a little influenced. Anyway, I could be your
great, great, great, great, grandmother.

[Bridge]

PICARD: What kind of questions did he have for you,
Number One? 
RIKER: All he wanted to know about was previous starships. What I
thought was innovative about the last Enterprise, the one before that.
He said he wanted to see if we had a grasp of the fundamentals. 
DATA: His queries to me primarily focused on Doctor Soong's 
(an alarm beeps) 
WORF: Captain, I am detecting a massive earthquake on the surface. Two
earthquakes. 
PICARD: Location? 
DATA: Both epicentres are beneath the two southernmost drill sites,
Captain. 
PICARD: Is La Forge still down there? 
WORF: Yes, sir. 
PICARD: Find him. 
RIKER: We've also got some volcanic activity. Pretty severe. 
PICARD: Magnify. 
LAFORGE [OC]: La Forge here, Captain. Moseley and I are on our way back
to his lab. 
PICARD: Are you all right? 
LAFORGE [OC]: We're okay, but those were pretty big, sir. If this was
Earth, I'd say around an eight or an eight five on the Richter Scale.
We're starting to see some volcanic plumes, Captain. 
WORF: Two more eruptions, sir. 
DATA: It is likely that we overestimated the geologic stability around
the CO2 pockets, Captain. 
LAFORGE [OC]: We're in the lab, sir. 
PICARD: On screen. 
MOSELEY [on viewscreen]: We're fairly well quake-proof down here,
Picard. It's the volcanic dust I'm worried about. 
PICARD: What about the dust? 
LAFORGE: The ash the volcanoes are throwing into the atmosphere is
going to compound the existing problem. In a matter of days, there'll
be no sunlight getting through those clouds. 
MOSELEY [on viewscreen]: No amount of CO2 will help us then. 
RIKER: Captain, take a look at this. (at science two) These are the
coordinates of the eruptions, and these are the coordinates of the
phaser drilling sites. 
PICARD: The mantle is collapsing where the pressure was released. 
LAFORGE [on viewscreen]: Captain, Doctor Moseley and I have a couple of
ideas, but it's going to take some time to sort out. 
PICARD: Sort them out, Commander. 
LAFORGE [on viewscreen]: Aye, sir. 
RIKER: We came here to help these people. 
PICARD: And look what we've done.

[Data's quarters]

(Rasmussen walks into a cacophony of sound) 
RASMUSSEN: What in God's name is that? 
DATA: Music, Professor. 
RASMUSSEN: Music? 
DATA: Yes, sir. Mozart's Jupiter symphony in C major, Bach's
Brandenburg Concerto number three, Beethoven's Ninth Symphony, second
movement, molto vivace and La Donna e Mobile from Verdi's Rigoletto. 
RASMUSSEN: Do you think you could thin it out a bit? 
DATA: Computer, eliminate programme one. Computer, eliminate programme
two. (glances at Rasmussen) Computer, eliminate
programme three. Computer, half volume. 
RASMUSSEN: How the hell can you listen to four pieces of music at the
same time? 
DATA: Actually, I am capable of distinguishing over one hundred and
fifty simultaneous compositions, but in order to analyse the
aesthetics, I try to keep it to ten or less. 
RASMUSSEN: Only four today? 
DATA: I am assisting Commander La Forge with a very complex
calculation. It demands a great deal of my concentration. 
RASMUSSEN: Well, I came to thank you for answering my questions, though
I probably should have asked you to limit yourself to fifty thousand
words. 
DATA: You did ask me to be thorough. 
RASMUSSEN: I realise it's hard to believe, Data, but very few records
of Doctor Soong's work survived to the twenty sixth century, so it
would be invaluable to myself and other historians, if you could
provide us with some schematics. 
DATA: Certainly, as soon as my work here is completed. 
RASMUSSEN: As long as it's before oh nine hundred tomorrow. That's when
I'll be heading back. 
WORF [OC]: Bridge to Commander Data. 
DATA: Yes, Worf. 
WORF: Commander La Forge is hailing you from the surface, sir. 
DATA: Patch him through, please. 
LAFORGE [on monitor]: Have you rerun the phase reversal figures, Data? 
DATA: There were no errors, Geordi. The variance must be no more than
point zero six terawatts. 
LAFORGE [on monitor]: Well, I don't see any other choice. We'll
continue to run the numbers down here but I doubt we'll come up with
anything different. You better inform the captain of the good news and
the bad news. La Forge out. 
(Rasmussen pockets a tricorder) 
RASMUSSEN: Which do you suppose he's going to want to hear first?

[Ready room]

PICARD: The good news. 
DATA: The motion of the dust has created a great deal of electrostatic
energy in the upper atmosphere. With a modified phaser blast, we could
create a shock front that would encircle the planet and ionise the
particles. 
PICARD: That would be like striking a spark in a gas-filled room. 
DATA: With one exception, sir. The particles would be converted into a
high energy plasma which our shields could absorb and then re-direct
harmlessly into space. 
PICARD: Turn the Enterprise into a lightning rod? 
DATA: Precisely, sir. 
PICARD: And the bad news? 
DATA: If our phaser discharge is off by as little as point zero six
terawatts, it would cause a cascading exothermal inversion. 
PICARD: Meaning? 
DATA: We would completely burn off the planet's atmosphere.

Captain's log, supplemental. While Doctor Moseley
takes La Forge's plan to the leaders of the colony, I find myself
weighing the potential consequences of a more philosophical issue.

[Ready room]

PICARD: Come. 
(Rasmussen enters) 
PICARD: I imagine you know why I've asked you here. 
RASMUSSEN: Yeah, I have a fairly good idea. 
PICARD: I'm faced with a dilemma. There is a planet beneath us which is
slowly turning to ice, and unless we do something about it, I'm told
that in a matter of weeks thousands, maybe tens of thousands, will die.

RASMUSSEN: That'd be a shame. 
PICARD: Yes, it would. It would be quite a shame. 
RASMUSSEN: So, what's your dilemma? 
PICARD: Commander La Forge has a possible solution. The margins of
error are extremely critical, but if successful, there'll be no more
threat. 
RASMUSSEN: And if it's not successful? 
PICARD: Every living thing on the planet will perish. 
RASMUSSEN: So do nothing and thousands will die. Do something and
millions could die. That's a tough choice. 
PICARD: Not if you were to help me. 
RASMUSSEN: You're not suggesting I tell you the outcome of your
efforts? 
PICARD: Oh no, I'm not. Everything that Starfleet stands for,
everything that I have ever believed in, tells me I cannot ask you
that.
But at the same time, there are twenty million lives down there, and
you know what happened to them. What will happen to them. 
RASMUSSEN: So, it seems you have another dilemma. One that questions
your convictions. 
PICARD: Well, I've never been afraid of reevaluating my convictions,
Professor, and now, I have twenty million reasons to do so. 
RASMUSSEN: And why did you ask to see me? 
PICARD: Because your presence gives me potential access to a kind of
information that I've never had available to me before, and if I am to
re-examine my beliefs, then I must take advantage of every possible
asset. It would be irresponsible of me not to ask you here. 
RASMUSSEN: However you come to terms with your beliefs, Captain, I must
tell you that I'm quite comfortable with mine. 
PICARD: How can you be? How can you be comfortable watching people die?

RASMUSSEN: Let me put it to you this way. If I were to tell you that
none of those people died, you'd easily conclude that you tried your
solution and it succeeded. So, you'd confidently try again. No harm in
that. But what if I were to tell you they all died? What then?
Obviously, you'd decide not to make the same mistake twice. Now, what
if one of those people grew up 
PICARD: Yes, Professor, I know. What if one of those lives I save down
there is a child who grows up to be the next Adolf Hitler or Khan
Singh? Every first year philosophy student have been asked that
question ever since the earliest wormholes were discovered. But this is
not a class in temporal logic. It's not theoretical, it's not
hypothetical, it's real. Surely you see that? 
RASMUSSEN: I see it all too well. But you must see that if I were to
influence you, everything in this sector, in this quadrant of the
galaxy could change. History, my history, would unfold in a way other
than it already has. Now what possible incentive could anyone offer me
to allow that to happen? 
PICARD: I have two choices. Either way, one version of history or
another will wend its way forward. The history you know or another one.
Now who is to say which is better? What I do know is here, today, one
way, millions of lives could be saved. Now
isn't that incentive enough? 
RASMUSSEN: Everyone dies, Captain. It's just a question of when. All of
those people down there died years before I was born. All of you up
here, as well. So you see, I can't get quite as worked up as you over
the fate of some colonists who, for me, have been dead a very, very
long time. 
PICARD: Of course, you know of the Prime Directive, which tells us that
we have no right to interfere with the natural evolution of alien
worlds. Now I have sworn to uphold it, but nevertheless I have
disregarded that directive on more than one occasion because I thought
it was the right thing to do. Now, if you are holding on to some
temporal equivalent of that directive, then isn't it
possible that you have an occasion here to make an exception, to help
me to choose, because it's the right thing to do? 
RASMUSSEN: We're not just talking about a choice. It sounds to me like
you're trying to manipulate the future. 
PICARD: Every choice we make allows us to manipulate the future. Do I
ask Adrienne or Suzanne to the spring dance? Do I take my holiday on
Corsica or on Risa? A person's life, their future, hinges on each of a
thousand choices. Living is making choices. Now you ask me to believe
that if I make a choice other than the one found in your history books,
then your past will be irrevocably altered. Well, you know, Professor,
perhaps I don't give a damn about your past, because your past is my
future and as far as I'm concerned, it hasn't been written yet. 
RIKER [OC]: Captain, the electrostatic conditions are about as good as
they're going to get. If we're going to try this, now's the time. 
RASMUSSEN: Please don't ask me, Captain. I can't help you. I'm sorry.

[Bridge]

PICARD: How long will it take to programme the
phasers, Number One? 
RIKER: We've just got to tie in Geordi's atmospheric sensors. 
RASMUSSEN: So you've made your choice after all, and without my help. 
PICARD: Oh, on the contrary, Professor, you were quite helpful. 
RASMUSSEN: How's that? 
PICARD: By refusing to assist me, you left me with the same choice I
had to began with. To try or not to try, to take a risk or to play it
safe. Your arguments have reminded me how precious the right to choose
is. And because I've never been one to play it safe, I choose to try.
Mister Data, programme the firing sequence. 
DATA: Aye, sir.

Captain's log, stardate 45351.9. Doctor Moseley has
met with the colony leaders, who all agree they are willing to take the
risk. 
