MOSELEY [on viewscreen] RIKER LAFORGE WORF RIKER [OC] PICARD LAFORGE [OC] RASMUSSEN LAFORGE [on viewscreen] WORF [OC] DATA LAFORGE [on monitor]
possession considering misfortune padd fit missing arrival allowed returned

[Bridge]

PICARD: What kind of questions did he have for you,
Number One? 
RIKER: All he wanted to know about was previous starships. What I
thought was innovative about the last Enterprise, the one before that.
He said he wanted to see if we had a grasp of the fundamentals. 
DATA: His queries to me primarily focused on Doctor Soong's 
(an alarm beeps) 
WORF: Captain, I am detecting a massive earthquake on the surface. Two
earthquakes. 
PICARD: Location? 
DATA: Both epicentres are beneath the two southernmost drill sites,
Captain. 
PICARD: Is La Forge still down there? 
WORF: Yes, sir. 
PICARD: Find him. 
RIKER: We've also got some volcanic activity. Pretty severe. 
PICARD: Magnify. 
LAFORGE [OC]: La Forge here, Captain. Moseley and I are on our way back
to his lab. 
PICARD: Are you all right? 
LAFORGE [OC]: We're okay, but those were pretty big, sir. If this was
Earth, I'd say around an eight or an eight five on the Richter Scale.
We're starting to see some volcanic plumes, Captain. 
WORF: Two more eruptions, sir. 
DATA: It is likely that we overestimated the geologic stability around
the CO2 pockets, Captain. 
LAFORGE [OC]: We're in the lab, sir. 
PICARD: On screen. 
MOSELEY [on viewscreen]: We're fairly well quake-proof down here,
Picard. It's the volcanic dust I'm worried about. 
PICARD: What about the dust? 
LAFORGE: The ash the volcanoes are throwing into the atmosphere is
going to compound the existing problem. In a matter of days, there'll
be no sunlight getting through those clouds. 
MOSELEY [on viewscreen]: No amount of CO2 will help us then. 
RIKER: Captain, take a look at this. (at science two) These are the
coordinates of the eruptions, and these are the coordinates of the
phaser drilling sites. 
PICARD: The mantle is collapsing where the pressure was released. 
LAFORGE [on viewscreen]: Captain, Doctor Moseley and I have a couple of
ideas, but it's going to take some time to sort out. 
PICARD: Sort them out, Commander. 
LAFORGE [on viewscreen]: Aye, sir. 
RIKER: We came here to help these people. 
PICARD: And look what we've done.

[Data's quarters]

(Rasmussen walks into a cacophony of sound) 
RASMUSSEN: What in God's name is that? 
DATA: Music, Professor. 
RASMUSSEN: Music? 
DATA: Yes, sir. Mozart's Jupiter symphony in C major, Bach's
Brandenburg Concerto number three, Beethoven's Ninth Symphony, second
movement, molto vivace and La Donna e Mobile from Verdi's Rigoletto. 
RASMUSSEN: Do you think you could thin it out a bit? 
DATA: Computer, eliminate programme one. Computer, eliminate programme
two. (glances at Rasmussen) Computer, eliminate
programme three. Computer, half volume. 
RASMUSSEN: How the hell can you listen to four pieces of music at the
same time? 
DATA: Actually, I am capable of distinguishing over one hundred and
fifty simultaneous compositions, but in order to analyse the
aesthetics, I try to keep it to ten or less. 
RASMUSSEN: Only four today? 
DATA: I am assisting Commander La Forge with a very complex
calculation. It demands a great deal of my concentration. 
RASMUSSEN: Well, I came to thank you for answering my questions, though
I probably should have asked you to limit yourself to fifty thousand
words. 
DATA: You did ask me to be thorough. 
RASMUSSEN: I realise it's hard to believe, Data, but very few records
of Doctor Soong's work survived to the twenty sixth century, so it
would be invaluable to myself and other historians, if you could
provide us with some schematics. 
DATA: Certainly, as soon as my work here is completed. 
RASMUSSEN: As long as it's before oh nine hundred tomorrow. That's when
I'll be heading back. 
WORF [OC]: Bridge to Commander Data. 
DATA: Yes, Worf. 
WORF: Commander La Forge is hailing you from the surface, sir. 
DATA: Patch him through, please. 
LAFORGE [on monitor]: Have you rerun the phase reversal figures, Data? 
DATA: There were no errors, Geordi. The variance must be no more than
point zero six terawatts. 
LAFORGE [on monitor]: Well, I don't see any other choice. We'll
continue to run the numbers down here but I doubt we'll come up with
anything different. You better inform the captain of the good news and
the bad news. La Forge out. 
(Rasmussen pockets a tricorder) 
RASMUSSEN: Which do you suppose he's going to want to hear first?

[Ready room]

PICARD: The good news. 
DATA: The motion of the dust has created a great deal of electrostatic
energy in the upper atmosphere. With a modified phaser blast, we could
create a shock front that would encircle the planet and ionise the
particles. 
PICARD: That would be like striking a spark in a gas-filled room. 
DATA: With one exception, sir. The particles would be converted into a
high energy plasma which our shields could absorb and then re-direct
harmlessly into space. 
PICARD: Turn the Enterprise into a lightning rod? 
DATA: Precisely, sir. 
PICARD: And the bad news? 
DATA: If our phaser discharge is off by as little as point zero six
terawatts, it would cause a cascading exothermal inversion. 
PICARD: Meaning? 
DATA: We would completely burn off the planet's atmosphere.

Captain's log, supplemental. While Doctor Moseley
takes La Forge's plan to the leaders of the colony, I find myself
weighing the potential consequences of a more philosophical issue.

[Ready room]

PICARD: Come. 
(Rasmussen enters) 
PICARD: I imagine you know why I've asked you here. 
RASMUSSEN: Yeah, I have a fairly good idea. 
PICARD: I'm faced with a dilemma. There is a planet beneath us which is
slowly turning to ice, and unless we do something about it, I'm told
that in a matter of weeks thousands, maybe tens of thousands, will die.

RASMUSSEN: That'd be a shame. 
PICARD: Yes, it would. It would be quite a shame. 
RASMUSSEN: So, what's your dilemma? 
PICARD: Commander La Forge has a possible solution. The margins of
error are extremely critical, but if successful, there'll be no more
threat. 
RASMUSSEN: And if it's not successful? 
PICARD: Every living thing on the planet will perish. 
RASMUSSEN: So do nothing and thousands will die. Do something and
millions could die. That's a tough choice. 
PICARD: Not if you were to help me. 
RASMUSSEN: You're not suggesting I tell you the outcome of your
efforts? 
PICARD: Oh no, I'm not. Everything that Starfleet stands for,
everything that I have ever believed in, tells me I cannot ask you
that.
But at the same time, there are twenty million lives down there, and
you know what happened to them. What will happen to them. 
RASMUSSEN: So, it seems you have another dilemma. One that questions
your convictions. 
PICARD: Well, I've never been afraid of reevaluating my convictions,
Professor, and now, I have twenty million reasons to do so. 
RASMUSSEN: And why did you ask to see me? 
PICARD: Because your presence gives me potential access to a kind of
information that I've never had available to me before, and if I am to
re-examine my beliefs, then I must take advantage of every possible
asset. It would be irresponsible of me not to ask you here. 
RASMUSSEN: However you come to terms with your beliefs, Captain, I must
tell you that I'm quite comfortable with mine. 
PICARD: How can you be? How can you be comfortable watching people die?

RASMUSSEN: Let me put it to you this way. If I were to tell you that
none of those people died, you'd easily conclude that you tried your
solution and it succeeded. So, you'd confidently try again. No harm in
that. But what if I were to tell you they all died? What then?
Obviously, you'd decide not to make the same mistake twice. Now, what
if one of those people grew up 
PICARD: Yes, Professor, I know. What if one of those lives I save down
there is a child who grows up to be the next Adolf Hitler or Khan
Singh? Every first year philosophy student have been asked that
question ever since the earliest wormholes were discovered. But this is
not a class in temporal logic. It's not theoretical, it's not
hypothetical, it's real. Surely you see that? 
RASMUSSEN: I see it all too well. But you must see that if I were to
influence you, everything in this sector, in this quadrant of the
galaxy could change. History, my history, would unfold in a way other
than it already has. Now what possible incentive could anyone offer me
to allow that to happen? 
PICARD: I have two choices. Either way, one version of history or
another will wend its way forward. The history you know or another one.
Now who is to say which is better? What I do know is here, today, one
way, millions of lives could be saved. Now
isn't that incentive enough? 
RASMUSSEN: Everyone dies, Captain. It's just a question of when. All of
those people down there died years before I was born. All of you up
here, as well. So you see, I can't get quite as worked up as you over
the fate of some colonists who, for me, have been dead a very, very
long time. 
PICARD: Of course, you know of the Prime Directive, which tells us that
we have no right to interfere with the natural evolution of alien
worlds. Now I have sworn to uphold it, but nevertheless I have
disregarded that directive on more than one occasion because I thought
it was the right thing to do. Now, if you are holding on to some
temporal equivalent of that directive, then isn't it
possible that you have an occasion here to make an exception, to help
me to choose, because it's the right thing to do? 
RASMUSSEN: We're not just talking about a choice. It sounds to me like
you're trying to manipulate the future. 
PICARD: Every choice we make allows us to manipulate the future. Do I
ask Adrienne or Suzanne to the spring dance? Do I take my holiday on
Corsica or on Risa? A person's life, their future, hinges on each of a
thousand choices. Living is making choices. Now you ask me to believe
that if I make a choice other than the one found in your history books,
then your past will be irrevocably altered. Well, you know, Professor,
perhaps I don't give a damn about your past, because your past is my
future and as far as I'm concerned, it hasn't been written yet. 
RIKER [OC]: Captain, the electrostatic conditions are about as good as
they're going to get. If we're going to try this, now's the time. 
RASMUSSEN: Please don't ask me, Captain. I can't help you. I'm sorry.

[Bridge]

PICARD: How long will it take to programme the
phasers, Number One? 
RIKER: We've just got to tie in Geordi's atmospheric sensors. 
RASMUSSEN: So you've made your choice after all, and without my help. 
PICARD: Oh, on the contrary, Professor, you were quite helpful. 
RASMUSSEN: How's that? 
PICARD: By refusing to assist me, you left me with the same choice I
had to began with. To try or not to try, to take a risk or to play it
safe. Your arguments have reminded me how precious the right to choose
is. And because I've never been one to play it safe, I choose to try.
Mister Data, programme the firing sequence. 
DATA: Aye, sir.

Captain's log, stardate 45351.9. Doctor Moseley has
met with the colony leaders, who all agree they are willing to take the
risk. 
[Bridge]

WORF: Warp power has being rerouted to the main
deflector dish, Commander. 
LAFORGE [on viewscreen]: Keep those phasers on active surge control,
Worf. We're only going to get one shot at this. 
RASMUSSEN: Well, this is it! 
RIKER: You have the sequence locked in, Data? 
DATA: Yes, sir. After an eight point three second burst from the dish,
we'll discharge all EPS taps through the phasers. 
PICARD: It's time for you return to the ship, Mister La Forge. Mister
O'Brien, stand by to transport. 
LAFORGE [on viewscreen]: Excuse me, Captain, but I can be of a lot more
help down here. We've going to have to compensate for density
variations right up to the last second. 
DATA: Doctor Moseley's computers can accomplish the same task, sir. but
Geordi would be better able to anticipate unexpected variances. 
PICARD: Mister La Forge, you know better than anyone there's no
guarantee this will work. If it fails 
LAFORGE [on viewscreen]: There's no guarantee it's going to fail,
Captain. I'd like your permission to remain here on the surface. 
PICARD: Permission granted. 
RASMUSSEN: La Forge remained below. 
PICARD: Good luck, Commander. 
LAFORGE [on viewscreen]: Thank you, Captain. 
(transmission ends) 
DATA: The deflector dish has been reconfigured, Captain. 
RIKER: Proceed, Mister Data. 
DATA: Stand by for auto-phaser interlock. Activating deflector beam. 
WORF: EPS taps online. Phasers firing. 
(a wicked red glow quickly spreads through the atmosphere, and is then
pushed back into a single point by azure blue. A stream of energy leaps
out at the Enterprise and envelopes it) 
DATA: Activating shield invertors, now. 
(Enterprise does a neat 180 and pours the energy off into space) 
PICARD: Mister La Forge? 
LAFORGE [on viewscreen]: La Forge here. Still breathing, Captain. 
MOSELEY [on viewscreen]: We've got particulate levels right where
they're supposed to be and the sun is shining! 
LAFORGE [on viewscreen]: You see, Captain, I told you there was nothing
to worry about. 
PICARD: Report back to the ship when you're ready, Commander. Doctor,
we'll stay in orbit and analyse the remaining volcanic disturbances,
but the best advice would be to let them cool down on their own. 
MOSELEY [on viewscreen]: I'm getting in the habit of thanking you,
Picard. 
(transmission ends) 
RASMUSSEN: Well, I'd love to see more, but it's nearly time for me to
go. I am tickled pink to have had the opportunity of witnessing this,
Picard. And you did it all without any help. well, must run. Got some
packing to do. You know, you're taller in person, Commander. 
(Rasmussen leaves, and Picard gives Worf the nod)

[Shuttlebay]

RASMUSSEN: Well, would you look at this. Who would
have expected a teary farewell? 
PICARD: I'm afraid we're going to have to take a look in your vessel. 
RASMUSSEN: Curious till the end, eh, Captain? You can't be serious,
Picard. We've been through this more than once. 
PICARD: A number of objects have been discovered missing in the last
two days, and if they're in your possession, then we would like them
returned. 
RASMUSSEN: I'm not here in search of relics. I'm sure they'll turn up. 
WORF: If you will not open the vessel, I will. With explosives, if
necessary. 
RASMUSSEN: I doubt you have the means. 
RIKER: If we don't get in that thing, I guarantee you don't either. 
RASMUSSEN: Considering the sensitive nature of my equipment, I think
you'll understand if I request that only Mister Data be allowed to see
it. 
RIKER: Why Data? 
PICARD: Because if I order Data never to divulge what he sees in there,
he won't, with the exception of anything that might belong to us. 
DATA: Understood, sir. 
RASMUSSEN: Back in a minute. 
(Rasmussen puts his hand on the ship, it scans him and a door appears.
They enter and it closes again)

[Time ship]

(tricorder, the neural stimulator, a hypospray, one
of Geordi's visors, a PADD, a Klingon knife) 
DATA: I do not believe any of these items belong to you, Professor. 
RASMUSSEN: Nor does this. This phaser is set at the highest stun
setting. If I'm correct, that is sufficient to immobilise even you. 
DATA: Why have you stolen these objects? To put in a museum? 
RASMUSSEN: Far too valuable for that. You see, in the century I come
from, they haven't even been invented yet. 
DATA: But this vessel? And the temporal distortion that coincided with
your arrival? 
RASMUSSEN: Oh, this is a time pod, and it is from the twenty sixth
century. At least that's what the poor fellow said. You see, he decided
to travel back to the twenty second century, that's my time, and he had
the misfortune of meeting me. His clothes fit quite well, don't you
think? Took me weeks to figure out how to work this thing. 
DATA: Then you are not an historian. 
RASMUSSEN: More of an inventor. Up till a few weeks ago, a dismally
unsuccessful one. 
DATA: What are your intentions, Professor? 
RASMUSSEN: Well, thanks to your captain, it seems my intentions have
changed slightly. I was quite content with the notion of returning with
those trinkets. I'd invent about one a year. But now, look what fortune
has graced me with. You will take a little longer to figure out than a
tricorder, but it should be well worth the effort. If the auto timer is
programmed the way I think it is, in about two minutes we should be on
our way back to a place called New Jersey. I'm afraid you won't be
awake for the ride. 
(but the phaser doesn't fire) 
DATA: I assume your hand print will open the door whether you are
conscious or not.

