TROI LAFORGE WORF PICARD ENSIGN RIKER RASMUSSEN CRUSHER DATA

[Bridge]

PICARD: Ensign, bring the ship about. Let's take a
look at Mister Worf's distortion. 
ENSIGN: Aye, sir. 
RIKER: Mister Worf's what? 
PICARD: The Lieutenant's sensors detected a temporal distortion almost
in our current course. There's a small object back there that wasn't
there a few moments ago. 
WORF: The object is fifty kilometres ahead, sir. 
PICARD: Full stop, Ensign. 
ENSIGN: Aye, sir. 
PICARD: On screen. 
RIKER: Dimensions, Worf? 
WORF: Approximately five metres in length, sir. 
PICARD: Lifesigns? 
WORF: No signs of any kind. Our sensors do not penetrate the hull. 
PICARD: Try hailing it. 
WORF: That's odd. 
RIKER: What's odd? 
WORF: We've received a response, sir, but 
PICARD: Yes, Mister Worf? 
WORF: They want you to move over, sir. 
PICARD: Reply that the Enterprise isn't going anywhere, Lieutenant. 
WORF: Not the Enterprise, Captain. You. 
PICARD: What are you trying to tell me? 
(and as Picard walks back towards Worf a figure appears where he was
standing)

RASMUSSEN: Oops. Excuse me, Captain, but you were standing right where
I needed to be. 
PICARD: Who are you? 
RASMUSSEN: Rasmussen's the name, sir. Professor Berlinghoff Rasmussen.
Ah, this is wonderful. Actually, quite a bit larger than I thought. 
PICARD: Really? 
RASMUSSEN: Where I come from, every historian knows the bridge of old
1701D. 
PICARD: Where exactly do you come from? 
RASMUSSEN: Why, Earth. Late twenty sixth century Earth, to be exact.
I've travelled back nearly three hundred years just to find you.

[Ready room]

(the lanky man is peering at a book on a stand -
Shakespeare I presume) 
PICARD: Exactly what kind of historian are you? 
RASMUSSEN: My focus is on the twenty second through the twenty fourth
centuries. Early interstellar history. You know, it was always believed
this was on your desk, not here. Fascinating. Don't move it on my
account. 
PICARD: You can't expect me to believe that the layout of my ready room
can possibly be of interest to future historians. 
RASMUSSEN: No less so than your legendary modesty, Captain. If I could
describe to you what a thrill it is to be here. (points at painting)
This is the original. 
PICARD: You flatter me Professor, but I can't help but wonder what
could possibly have caused you to select me as the subject of your
study. Even in this decade, there are far wiser and more experienced
humans in and out of Starfleet. 
RASMUSSEN: I'd love to tell you, Picard. I really would, but try and
imagine what a young Caesar might have done differently had someone had
given him a hint of what lay ahead, or if Lincoln had been coerced into
changing his theatre plans. I truly wish I could be more specific on
why you were selected, but I'm afraid the exchange of information will
have to flow in one direction only. (paces out the room) Five, six,
seven metres. Ha! I was right.

[Observation lounge]

WORF: Why now? 
LAFORGE: Right. If you've came back to study us, to study the captain,
why would you pick today? Why not a year ago or a year from now? 
RASMUSSEN: Oh, I picked the right day all right. Just wait, you'll see.
Do you always sit there, on that side of the table? 
WORF: Usually. Why? 
RASMUSSEN: It's not important. 
RIKER: Professor, at what point does time travel become a tool for
historians? 
RASMUSSEN: Now, now, Commander, you know better than that. I've studied
a great deal about your century, including the fact that you're all
quite aware of the dangers of anyone altering the past, and that's
exactly what I'd be doing if I were to divulge information like that. 
CRUSHER: Telurian plague. 
RASMUSSEN: I beg your pardon? 
CRUSHER: The telurian plague. Was it cured? I mean, did they find the
cure by your century? Oh, it can't do any harm to ask that. 
PICARD: I realise that it's difficult, but we must keep to ourselves
questions regarding the future. Go on, Professor. 
RASMUSSEN: I'll be preparing questionnaires for each of you. Please
complete them at your convenience. If you're concerned about a possible
breach of security, I'm sure your Captain can make a determination. And
thank you in advance for curbing your curiosity. 
LAFORGE: If I hand my assignment in on time, can I get a glimpse into
next week's poker game? 
PICARD: Mister Data, would you escort the Professor to his quarters. 
DATA: This way, sir. 
(Data and Rasmussen leave) 
RIKER: What did he mean, he picked the right day? 
PICARD: You know everything I do, Will. 
RIKER: Deanna? 
TROI: It's hard to tell, but he is holding something back. 
CRUSHER: Of course he is. All the things he could tell us. All the
things he would like to tell us. 
TROI: It might be that, I don't know. 
RIKER: What if he's an imposter? God knows we've seen enough of them. 
PICARD: He is human. The medical scans have proved that, right, Doctor?

CRUSHER: He's human, all right. 
PICARD: And there was a temporal distortion back there, correct Mister
Worf? 
WORF: Yes, sir. 
PICARD: And no one can deny that ship of his is unlike anything we've
ever seen before. 
LAFORGE: The hull is made of some kind of plasticised tritanium mesh.
We've nothing like it on record, at least not till now. 
PICARD: Mister Worf, I do appreciate your caution. I share it. Bring
his vessel into the shuttlebay. Place it under guard. 
WORF: Yes, sir. 
PICARD: I realise that this visit is going to be difficult for some of
us, but I've examined his credentials, and everything seems to be in
order, so I think we should extend to him every courtesy. 
WORF: Including questionnaires? 
PICARD: Including questionnaires, Mister Worf.

