PICARD [OC] RIKER WOMAN LAFORGE WORF PICARD RASMUSSEN MOSELEY CRUSHER DATA
blind different avoid masks rivers warp known exciting come

[Penthara science lab]

(a lot of snow has fallen) 
PICARD: We've located three underground pockets of carbon dioxide,
here, here and here. Our drilling phasers can release enough of the gas
to form an envelope which would temporarily hold in the heat of the
sun. 
MOSELEY: We've spend years, decades, trying to avoid anything that
would lead to a greenhouse effect and now here we are about to create
one on purpose. 
LAFORGE: Less than twenty percent of your normal sunlight is getting
through that dust, Doctor. If we can hold enough heat in with the CO2,
that should give the planet time to mend itself. 
WOMAN: Excuse me, Doctor Moseley. 
MOSELEY: What now? 
WOMAN: New Seattle's reporting a cloud depth of twelve kilometres. Two
rivers, tropical rivers, are beginning to freeze. 
MOSELEY: We'd better get started before there's nothing left to mend.

[Ten Forward]

(Rasmussen walks in and goes to the bar) 
RIKER: Look who's here. 
WORF: I hate questionnaires. 
CRUSHER: Professor, come and join us. 
RASMUSSEN: I hope I'm not intruding. 
CRUSHER: Not at all. I'm sure you're the topic of conversation at every
table in this room. 
RASMUSSEN: As I promised, here are your assignments. I'm sure they'll
be painless. Please try and complete them by tomorrow. 
(hands out transparent chips, taking time to hold Beverly's hand while
he does it) 
WORF: Tomorrow? 
RIKER: No problem, Professor. 
RASMUSSEN: You're all very calm. 
RIKER: Is there some reason we shouldn't be? 
RASMUSSEN: History always records where people were, what they were
doing, when important events took place. But it rarely remembers their
activities say, a week before, or a day or even an hour. 
WORF: Are you suggesting that an important event is imminent? 
RASMUSSEN: I didn't say that, did I? Please, just go on doing what you
were doing and pretend I'm not here. 
RIKER: Why is there no record of other future historians travelling
back to witness important events? 
RASMUSSEN: We're obviously very careful. As a matter of fact, a
colleague and I recently paid a call on a twenty second century vessel.

CRUSHER: They hadn't perfected quarantine fields. You probably saw some
surgical masks and gloves. 
RASMUSSEN: Isn't it fascinating how everyone has different interests
when it comes to history. Different perspectives on progress. 
(Rasmussen opens a ring and looks inside) 
RIKER: Would you mind telling me what that is? 
RASMUSSEN: Just checking the time. No problem. 
RIKER: Is something important supposed to be happening here? 
RASMUSSEN: No, it's nothing, nothing. What about you, Commander? What
do you see as the most important example of progress in the last two
hundred years? 
RIKER: I suppose the warp coil. Before there was warp drive, humans
were confined to a single sector of the galaxy. 
RASMUSSEN: Spoken like the consummate explorer. 
RIKER: What is going on? Are you expecting someone? 
WORF: Phasers. 
RASMUSSEN: I beg your pardon? 
WORF: There were no phasers in the 22nd century. 
RASMUSSEN: Ah, you see, Doctor? Our Klingon friend is a perfect example
of what I was trying to tell you. He views history through the eyes of
a hunter, a warrior. His passion lies in the perfection of the tools of
violence. How delightfully primitive.

[Engineering]

LAFORGE: (to a crewwoman) As soon as we input this
atmospheric data from Moseley, the computer should tell us how many
holes we'll have to
punch. 
DATA: What have you learned about the tectonic stability around the
drilling sites? 
LAFORGE: Couldn't be better. Our scans were all clear and Moseley says
there hasn't been so much as a quiver down there in well over a
century. 
RASMUSSEN: Ah ha, just the two I'm looking for. I've brought you the
forms I need you to complete. Shouldn't take any more than a couple of
hours. 
LAFORGE: We're kind of busy here, Professor. Tomorrow would probably be
better. Data, we've got about twenty three thousand thermal
simulations. You think you could check them through for anomalies? 
DATA: Certainly. 
(Data starts working at the console at fast-forward speed)

RASMUSSEN: Is that as fast as he can go? 
LAFORGE: Not fast enough for you, Professor? 
RASMUSSEN: There's little known about Data's efficiency. Almost nothing
about his part in this mission. It's a topic of great conjecture. 
DATA: Two hundred nine anomalies all within acceptable parameters. 
LAFORGE: Thanks, Data. You're here to witness this mission. That's it,
isn't it? 
RASMUSSEN: It'd be best if you just thought of me as a fly on the wall,
and went about your business. 
DATA: I will have your answered questions as soon as possible,
Professor. 
RASMUSSEN: Data at Penthara Four! 
LAFORGE: If you'll excuse me. 
RASMUSSEN: Your prosthesis. What do you call it again? 
LAFORGE: A visor. 
RASMUSSEN: Visor. Right. A visor. You know, I have a picture of you
wearing that in my
office. How do you like it? 
LAFORGE: It allows me to see. I like it just fine. 
RASMUSSEN: You know, Homer was blind and Milton. Bach, Monet, Wonder. 
LAFORGE: A fly on the wall, huh? 
RASMUSSEN: A fly on the wall. 
DATA: The computer has configured the drilling pattern and specified
depths. 
LAFORGE: Captain, we've got everything we need. I'm ready to transport
down to the surface. 
PICARD [OC]: I'll notify Doctor Moseley. Good luck, Geordi. 
LAFORGE: Gentlemen. 
(Geordi leaves and Rasmussen pockets a PADD) 
RASMUSSEN: Who said these moments were any less exciting when you know
the outcome? 
DATA: I know of no one who said that, Professor.

