RIKER LAFORGE WORF RIKER [OC] FELTON PICARD DATA ALEXANDER
current shield casualties choice environment allow time news true

[Worf's quarters]

(Alexander is packing a small suitcase) 
WORF: Alexander. 
ALEXANDER: I'm almost done. 
WORF: Stop for a moment. Let us talk. 
ALEXANDER: Why? 
WORF: I want you to understand why you are going away. 
ALEXANDER: I understand. You're ashamed of me. 
WORF: You do not understand. I'm concerned about your future. A Klingon
school will be a better environment for you. 
ALEXANDER: You don't care about me. 
WORF: That is not true. 
ALEXANDER: All you care about is your honour! 
WORF: Alexander. If your mother were here I do not think she would want
us to fight like this. 
ALEXANDER: My mother wouldn't send me away. 
RIKER [OC]: Lieutenant Worf, please report to the Observation lounge. 
WORF: Acknowledged. Remain here. I will return shortly. 
(Worf leaves, Alexander throws his suitcase on the floor and storms
away)

[Observation lounge]

PICARD: Report. 
LAFORGE: The soliton wave has continued to increase in 
(Worf enters) 
WORF: Excuse me. 
LAFORGE: The soliton wave has continued to increase in power. Its
energy level has risen by a factor of ninety six. At its current rate
of acceleration, the wave should hit the planet in a couple of hours. 
PICARD: How do we stop it? 
LAFORGE: Well, there are two possibilities. We could attempt to use our
own warp engines to generate an inverse-resonance wave. If we could
match the exact frequency and amplitude of the soliton, we should be
able to neutralise it. 
RIKER: You don't sound very confident. 
DATA: Because the soliton is constantly changing in both frequency and
amplitude, it will be extremely difficult to achieve an exact match. 
PICARD: Let's hear the second option. 
LAFORGE: It's a little more dangerous, but I think there's a better
chance for success. We could create a backfire, an explosive force set
off just in front of the soliton wave. A large enough explosion, say
five photon torpedoes, should be enough to disrupt the wave and allow
it to dissipate. 
PICARD: How fast is the wave travelling now? 
DATA: Warp six point three seven. 
LAFORGE: The good news is we can catch it. The bad news is that in
order to set up this backfire we have to be in front of it.
DATA: Which would require the Enterprise to go through the wave. 
RIKER: Why can't we go around it? 
DATA: The wave has been growing in size as well as power. There is
insufficient time remaining for us to circumvent it before it reaches
Lemma Two. 
PICARD: How much protection will the shields provide if we attempt to
penetrate the wave? 
WORF: The shields have not been fully restored. Shield strength is down
to thirty three percent. 
RIKER: It's going to be quite a ride. 
PICARD: It's a better choice. Lay in a course for the soliton wave. 
[Bridge]

PICARD: Ensign, after we've passed through the
wave, I want you to take us at a relative position twenty three
kilometres in front of it. 
FELTON: Aye, sir. 
RIKER: Alert sickbay to prepare for possible casualties. 
WORF: Aye, sir. 
DATA: The wave has increased speed to warp seven point two, Captain. 
PICARD: Ensign, take us to warp seven point two one. 
FELTON: We are approaching the wave, Captain. Distance two hundred
kilometres. 
RIKER: Let's see it. 
(the viewscreen is filled with the undulating wave) 
PICARD: Stand by to increase speed to warp seven point three. On my
mark. 
RIKER: Red Alert. Load torpedo bays. Set warhead yields to level
sixteen. 
WORF: Aye, sir. 
RIKER: All deck, this is the Bridge. Brace for impact. 
WORF: Torpedoes loaded. 
PICARD: Engage.

