KYLE [OC] WORF PICARD KYLE CRUSHER [OC] ALEXANDER
information sickbay medical enrolling doesn contact rest 43205 meeting

[Mrs. Kyle's office]

KYLE: Come in. Lieutenant Worf. Very nice to see
you again. And you must be Alexander. I hear you'll be coming to school
with us for a while? Well, we're very excited to have you with us. I
know the other boys and girls will be happy to have a new classmate.
First I need to get a little information from you. Let's start with
your name. Alexander Rozhenko. That's a tough one. Maybe you can help
me with that. Could you spell your last name for me? 
(but Alexander is too busy looking around the room) 
WORF: Alexander. The teacher asked you a question. 
KYLE: It doesn't matter. I think I can figure it out. Date of birth? 
(Worf doesn't know) 
ALEXANDER: The forty third day of Maktag, stardate 43205. 
WORF: Yes. Yes, of course. 
KYLE: I'll get the rest of his personal records from the school on
Earth, and, oh, one last question. How long will he be staying aboard
ship? 
WORF: It has not been decided.

[Ready room]

PICARD: Come. Mister Worf, I thought our meeting
was scheduled for eleven hundred hours. 
WORF: I apologise for being late, Captain. I was detained in school. I
was enrolling my son in class. 
PICARD: I see. Well, Mister Worf, as you're aware, several new security
officers will be transferring to the Enterprise next week and I would
like to discuss. 
KYLE [OC]: Kyle to Lieutenant Worf. 
WORF: Worf here. 
KYLE [OC]: I'm sorry to bother you again, Lieutenant, but I forgot to
mention that we need to arrange for a series of placement examinations
for Alexander. If you could tell me when 
WORF: This is not a good time. I will contact you shortly, Miss Kyle.
Sorry, Captain. 
PICARD: I would like to discuss with you the specific areas of ship's
security that I would like 
CRUSHER [OC]: Sickbay to Worf. 
WORF: Yes, Doctor? 
CRUSHER [OC]: I need to schedule a physical examination for Alexander.
I also need his complete medical records from Earth and the medical
records of his 
WORF: I would rather discuss this at a later time. 
CRUSHER [OC]: There's no rush. Crusher out. 
PICARD: Mister Worf. You are not the first officer on this ship to have
a new family member. Take care of your son. The security matters can
wait. 
WORF: Thank you, Captain.

