RIKER LAFORGE WORF PICARD KYLE JADAR CRUSHER DATA

[Ready room]

PICARD: Come. Mister Worf, I thought our meeting
was scheduled for eleven hundred hours. 
WORF: I apologise for being late, Captain. I was detained in school. I
was enrolling my son in class. 
PICARD: I see. Well, Mister Worf, as you're aware, several new security
officers will be transferring to the Enterprise next week and I would
like to discuss. 
KYLE [OC]: Kyle to Lieutenant Worf. 
WORF: Worf here. 
KYLE [OC]: I'm sorry to bother you again, Lieutenant, but I forgot to
mention that we need to arrange for a series of placement examinations
for Alexander. If you could tell me when 
WORF: This is not a good time. I will contact you shortly, Miss Kyle.
Sorry, Captain. 
PICARD: I would like to discuss with you the specific areas of ship's
security that I would like 
CRUSHER [OC]: Sickbay to Worf. 
WORF: Yes, Doctor? 
CRUSHER [OC]: I need to schedule a physical examination for Alexander.
I also need his complete medical records from Earth and the medical
records of his 
WORF: I would rather discuss this at a later time. 
CRUSHER [OC]: There's no rush. Crusher out. 
PICARD: Mister Worf. You are not the first officer on this ship to have
a new family member. Take care of your son. The security matters can
wait. 
WORF: Thank you, Captain.

[Observation lounge]

(an alien humanoid is giving a presentation) 
JA'DAR: Twenty three field coils, working in concert, will generate the
soliton wave from this point on the planet surface.
We will have our test ship towed to a position approximately two
million kilometres from Bilana Three. If our theories are correct, the
wave will envelop the ship and push it into warp. 
PICARD: Warp without warp drive. 
RIKER: They're going to put you out of a job, Geordi. 
LAFORGE: I hope so, Commander. 
DATA: Doctor Ja'Dar, how closely will the Enterprise need to follow the
test vehicle? 
JA'DAR: The soliton emits a great deal of subspace radio interference.
You'll need to remain within twenty kilometres in order to receive
telemetry. 
PICARD: Doctor, how will you end the experiment? 
JA'DAR: The wave will be directed toward Lemma Two, about three light
years distance. Our sister facility there which will generate a
scattering field which will dissipate the wave and bring the ship out
of warp. I'll be sending you more detailed operational plans within the
hour. 
PICARD: Very well, Doctor. We'll contact you again once we've finished
studying the mission specs.

