KYLE WORF ALEXANDER
life nod tiny dishonour morath forgot earth display 45376

[Biolab]

(there are models, and things in display cases) 
KYLE: As the value of their horns increased, the number of white rhinos
in the wild kept falling, until they finally became extinct about two
centuries ago. Now, I'd like to show you a pair of animals we're trying
to save from extinction. Would you follow me? They're from Corvan Two,
where their homes in the rainforests are being threatened by industrial
pollutants. They're called Corvan gilvos. They're a little shy. 
(something moves in the cage) 
KYLE: The eating habits of gilvos are very similar to those of Earth's
Draco lizards, which died out over three hundred years ago. There
are only fourteen gilvos left on Corvan Two. We're transplanting these
two to the protected planet Brentalia, where they should thrive. Well,
why don't you all have a look around on your own for a while. If you
have any questions, please feel free to ask. 
(the others disperse, but Alexander is completely taken by the gilvos) 
KYLE: Alexander, I'm sorry. I forgot to tell everyone that the models
on the tables were for everyone to play with. So I guess you didn't
know you weren't supposed to take them. I saw you playing with the
lizard model a little while ago. Do you still have it? 
WORF: Are you accusing him of stealing? 
KYLE: Lieutenant Worf, I can only tell you that 
WORF: Alexander, did you take the model of the lizard from the table? 
ALEXANDER: No, sir. 
KYLE: Lieutenant, I saw Alexander put the model inside of his jacket. 
(Worf checks Alexander's pockets, and find it)

Lieutenant Worf, personal log, stardate 45376.8.
Alexander has acted shamefully, and as his father I must now deal with
him. But I find that I would gladly fight ten armed Baldur warriors
rather than face one small child.

[Worf's quarters]

WORF: A Klingon's honour is more important to him
than his life. A Klingon would gladly face the most horrible punishment
rather than bring shame or disgrace to his family name. His word is his
bond. Without it, he is nothing. Do you understand? 
(a tiny nod) 
WORF: Why did you lie to me? 
ALEXANDER: I don't know. 
WORF: Did you fear the punishment you would receive? 
ALEXANDER: I don't know. 
WORF: You don't know why you lied, and yet you did. You don't know why
you stole, and yet you did! Alexander, come here. When I was a child,
younger than you, I lost my parents, my family, my people. Everything I
had was taken from me except my sense of honour. It was the one thing I
had which was truly Klingon and which no one could take away. Do you
know who they are? 
(a statuette of two semi-naked klingon wrestlers) 
ALEXANDER: Kahless? 
WORF: And his brother, Morath. They fought for twelve days and twelve
nights because Morath had broken his word and brought
shame to his family. When you lie or steal, you not only dishonour
yourself, but your family. You dishonour me. 
ALEXANDER: I'm sorry, Father. I won't do it ever again. I promise. 
WORF: I accept your word. We will not speak of this matter again.

