TROI LAFORGE WORF PICARD RIKER DATA ALEXANDER

[Troi's office]

TROI: Are you sure this is what you want? 
WORF: It is not a question of what I want. It is a question of what is
best for the boy. He will be better off at a Klingon school. 
TROI: Have you discussed this with Alexander? 
WORF: He is a child. I informed him of my decision. 
TROI: I see. 
WORF: You disapprove? 
TROI: I'm not here to approve or disapprove of the way you raise your
son. My concern right now is how this decision is going to affect you.
How will you feel when Alexander's gone? 
WORF: I will be pleased that he is receiving the guidance he requires. 
TROI: Is that how you felt when he left to live with your parents? 
WORF: That was different. At the time, I felt he needed a home, a
family. Things I could not provide for him. 
TROI: I understand. The idea of raising a child can seem a tremendous
burden, particularly to a solitary parent. 
WORF: He was no burden. I simply knew that a Klingon child required
more attention than I could provide. 
TROI: I see. Have you ever wondered how Alexander felt about being sent
away? 
WORF: He was very young. I'm sure he was confused. 
TROI: Do you think he felt abandoned? After all, he left very soon
after K'Ehleyr's death. In a way, he not only lost his mother, he lost
his father as well. 
WORF: Are you saying that his misconduct is a result of feeling
abandoned? 
TROI: It's possible. Children don't have the experience to handle
emotional crises. Instead of dealing with their feelings, they act on
them. Tell me about the last time you spoke with K'Ehleyr, the night
she died. 
WORF: We argued. 
TROI: What about? 
WORF: Alexander. About how she did not tell me about him when he was
born. 
TROI: So you were angry with her? 
WORF: Yes. 
TROI: Are you still angry with her? 
WORF: Of course not. 
TROI: It would be very normal to be angry with her. Angry because she
died and left you alone with a son you never knew you had. Being angry
doesn't mean you loved her any less, Worf, but you can't hide from your
feelings, just as Alexander cannot hide from his. You both have a lot
of healing to do. Perhaps you should think about doing it together.

[Worf's quarters]

(Alexander is packing a small suitcase) 
WORF: Alexander. 
ALEXANDER: I'm almost done. 
WORF: Stop for a moment. Let us talk. 
ALEXANDER: Why? 
WORF: I want you to understand why you are going away. 
ALEXANDER: I understand. You're ashamed of me. 
WORF: You do not understand. I'm concerned about your future. A Klingon
school will be a better environment for you. 
ALEXANDER: You don't care about me. 
WORF: That is not true. 
ALEXANDER: All you care about is your honour! 
WORF: Alexander. If your mother were here I do not think she would want
us to fight like this. 
ALEXANDER: My mother wouldn't send me away. 
RIKER [OC]: Lieutenant Worf, please report to the Observation lounge. 
WORF: Acknowledged. Remain here. I will return shortly. 
(Worf leaves, Alexander throws his suitcase on the floor and storms
away)

[Observation lounge]

PICARD: Report. 
LAFORGE: The soliton wave has continued to increase in 
(Worf enters) 
WORF: Excuse me. 
LAFORGE: The soliton wave has continued to increase in power. Its
energy level has risen by a factor of ninety six. At its current rate
of acceleration, the wave should hit the planet in a couple of hours. 
PICARD: How do we stop it? 
LAFORGE: Well, there are two possibilities. We could attempt to use our
own warp engines to generate an inverse-resonance wave. If we could
match the exact frequency and amplitude of the soliton, we should be
able to neutralise it. 
RIKER: You don't sound very confident. 
DATA: Because the soliton is constantly changing in both frequency and
amplitude, it will be extremely difficult to achieve an exact match. 
PICARD: Let's hear the second option. 
LAFORGE: It's a little more dangerous, but I think there's a better
chance for success. We could create a backfire, an explosive force set
off just in front of the soliton wave. A large enough explosion, say
five photon torpedoes, should be enough to disrupt the wave and allow
it to dissipate. 
PICARD: How fast is the wave travelling now? 
DATA: Warp six point three seven. 
LAFORGE: The good news is we can catch it. The bad news is that in
order to set up this backfire we have to be in front of it.
DATA: Which would require the Enterprise to go through the wave. 
RIKER: Why can't we go around it? 
DATA: The wave has been growing in size as well as power. There is
insufficient time remaining for us to circumvent it before it reaches
Lemma Two. 
PICARD: How much protection will the shields provide if we attempt to
penetrate the wave? 
WORF: The shields have not been fully restored. Shield strength is down
to thirty three percent. 
RIKER: It's going to be quite a ride. 
PICARD: It's a better choice. Lay in a course for the soliton wave. 
