RIKER WORF JA'DAR [on monitor] LAFORGE [OC] TROI DATA ALEXANDER
begin hide lost permission question replace zero factor handle

[Holodeck]

(Alexander is on the defensive for most of the time
until he gets a lucky swing) 
WORF: Computer, freeze programme. 
ALEXANDER: Did you see it, Father? I won. 
WORF: Yes, I saw. Why are you here? 
ALEXANDER: I'm training. 
WORF: But you did not ask permission to take my bat'leth, or permission
to use the holodeck. 
ALEXANDER: You said you wanted me to be a warrior. 
WORF: I also said I wanted you to obey your teachers and keep your
promise to me. Ms. Kyle has told me about your behaviour. About your
lies. 
ALEXANDER: I have not lied! 
WORF: Alexander, do not continue to 
ALEXANDER: She's lying! She hates me, that's why she makes up stories
about me! 
WORF: I will not listen to more lies. Return to our quarters. 
ALEXANDER: You said we could go see the gilvos again. 
WORF: Not now. Not after you have broken your word. 
ALEXANDER: You promised. You said that we could. 
WORF: Enough! It is now clear to me that I have failed in my duties as
your father. You have no understanding about what it means to be
Klingon. I will arrange for you to attend a Klingon school. There you
will learn the lessons I have failed to teach you. 
ALEXANDER: No! I won't go! 
WORF: Would you further dishonour our family with your disobedience? 
ALEXANDER: No, sir. 
WORF: You will go to our quarters and remain there until I return.

[Bridge]

(at the aft stations) 
RIKER: Riker to Engineering. What's your estimate on the engines,
Geordi? 
LAFORGE [OC]: I need another hour, Commander. I still have to replace
three power couplings. 
RIKER: Understood. 
DATA: Sir, sensors are coming back online. 
RIKER: Good. Begin a sensor sweep for the soliton wave. 
DATA: Aye, sir. The wave is continuing on course for the Lemma Two
colony. It is bearing zero two zero, mark three two nine. 
RIKER: Open a channel back here to Doctor Ja'Dar. 
DATA: Sir, the wave has increased in velocity to warp four point one. 
RIKER: Doctor, we've located the soliton wave. It's still on a course
for Lemma Two. However its velocity has increased to warp four point
one. 
JA'DAR [on monitor]: Have you checked the frequency resonance of the
subspace 
DATA: Sir, the energy level of the wave has increased by a factor of
twelve. At this rate, it will have increased by a factor of two hundred
by the time it reaches Lemma Two. 
RIKER: Will they still be able to dissipate the wave? 
JA'DAR [on monitor]: Commander, at that energy level, the wave will not
only destroy the colony, it'll take most of the planet with it.

[Troi's office]

TROI: Are you sure this is what you want? 
WORF: It is not a question of what I want. It is a question of what is
best for the boy. He will be better off at a Klingon school. 
TROI: Have you discussed this with Alexander? 
WORF: He is a child. I informed him of my decision. 
TROI: I see. 
WORF: You disapprove? 
TROI: I'm not here to approve or disapprove of the way you raise your
son. My concern right now is how this decision is going to affect you.
How will you feel when Alexander's gone? 
WORF: I will be pleased that he is receiving the guidance he requires. 
TROI: Is that how you felt when he left to live with your parents? 
WORF: That was different. At the time, I felt he needed a home, a
family. Things I could not provide for him. 
TROI: I understand. The idea of raising a child can seem a tremendous
burden, particularly to a solitary parent. 
WORF: He was no burden. I simply knew that a Klingon child required
more attention than I could provide. 
TROI: I see. Have you ever wondered how Alexander felt about being sent
away? 
WORF: He was very young. I'm sure he was confused. 
TROI: Do you think he felt abandoned? After all, he left very soon
after K'Ehleyr's death. In a way, he not only lost his mother, he lost
his father as well. 
WORF: Are you saying that his misconduct is a result of feeling
abandoned? 
TROI: It's possible. Children don't have the experience to handle
emotional crises. Instead of dealing with their feelings, they act on
them. Tell me about the last time you spoke with K'Ehleyr, the night
she died. 
WORF: We argued. 
TROI: What about? 
WORF: Alexander. About how she did not tell me about him when he was
born. 
TROI: So you were angry with her? 
WORF: Yes. 
TROI: Are you still angry with her? 
WORF: Of course not. 
TROI: It would be very normal to be angry with her. Angry because she
died and left you alone with a son you never knew you had. Being angry
doesn't mean you loved her any less, Worf, but you can't hide from your
feelings, just as Alexander cannot hide from his. You both have a lot
of healing to do. Perhaps you should think about doing it together.

