TROI LAFORGE WORF PICARD RIKER FELTON KYLE COMPUTER DATA JA'DAR [on viewscreen]
faster stations things holodeck computer generators morath small bilana

[Turbolift]

WORF: Bridge. There was an incident. Alexander
stole a small model and then told a falsehood. But I have remedied the
situation. 
TROI: May I ask how? 
WORF: I pointed out his error, told him about Kahless and Morath, and
explained the value of honour. The boy understood. 
TROI: I see. Sometimes these things aren't over as quickly as they seem
to be. I'd be happy to help if you have any further problems. 
WORF: Thank you, that will not be necessary. Alexander will not repeat
this mistake.

[Bridge]

DATA: The prototype has been towed into position,
Captain. 
RIKER: Initiate a radio link to the ship. 
LAFORGE: Link established. Receiving prelaunch telemetry now. 
WORF: Incoming message from Doctor Ja'Dar. 
PICARD: On screen. 
JA'DAR [on viewscreen]: Captain, we're ready to begin the launch
sequence. 
PICARD: Mister Riker? 
RIKER: All science labs standing by. 
FELTON: Course laid in, sir. 
PICARD: The Enterprise is ready, Doctor. 
JA'DAR [on viewscreen]: This is Doctor Ja'Dar to all stations. You may
begin the launch sequence. 
PICARD: And Doctor? Good luck. 
JA'DAR [on viewscreen]: Thank you, Captain. 
(transmission ends) 
DATA: Sensors indicate the field generators on the planet surface are
charging, Captain. 
LAFORGE: The soliton wave has been initiated. It's heading for the test
ship. 
(a blue wave rushes out to the vessel and off they rush) 
DATA: The test ship has successfully entered warp, sir. 
PICARD: Ensign, engage. 
(Enterprise goes to warp) 
PICARD: Ensign, bring us to within twenty kilometres of the test ship. 
FELTON: Aye, sir. 
LAFORGE: Telemetry looks good. Soliton wave is steady. 
DATA: The test ship is maintaining at warp two point three five, sir. 
LAFORGE: That's a little faster than they anticipated, but still well
within mission parameters. 
FELTON: We're at twenty kilometres, Captain. 
PICARD: Mister Data, is the wave affecting our warp drive? 
DATA: No, sir. The effect has been localised to within two kilometres
of the wavefront. 
RIKER: Mister La Forge, what is the power efficiency of the wave? 
LAFORGE: Energy transfer is ninety eight percent! 
RIKER: Ninety eight? 
LAFORGE: Yes, sir. There's less than a two percent energy loss between
the wave and the ship. 
DATA: That is four hundred and fifty percent more efficient than our
own warp drive. 
PICARD: Astonishing. Commander Riker, have science lab three begin a
series of gamma emission tests. 
DATA: Sir, the wave's power signature is fluctuating. 
LAFORGE: Wave efficiency has dropped to seventy three percent. 
RIKER: The test ship's warp field is becoming unstable. Sensors show
multiple disruptions. 
FELTON: I'm reading a severe subspace distortion, sir. 
DATA: It is expanding toward us, sir. It appears to be interfering with
our engines, Captain. 
LAFORGE: I can't compensate for it. 
PICARD: Bring us out of warp, Ensign. All stop. 
FELTON: Aye, sir. All stop. 
RIKER: Damage report. 
(the test ship goes KaBOOM and everyone gets thrown out of their seats)

PICARD: Hold on! 
RIKER: Damage report. 
LAFORGE: Sensors and warp drive are offline. Deflectors down to fifteen
percent. 
WORF: Several injuries reported on deck twenty seven. No fatalities. 
PICARD: What happened to the test ship? 
DATA: Our last readings indicate the craft exploded due to extreme
shearing stress. 
WORF: Incoming message from Bilana Three, Captain. 
PICARD: On screen. 
JA'DAR [on viewscreen]: Captain, are you all right? Was anyone hurt? 
PICARD: We sustained some minor damage. Do you know what happened? 
JA'DAR [on viewscreen]: The preliminary data we received indicate a
transient power imbalance. 
LAFORGE: That would be consistent with our telemetry readings from the
ship. We detected a sudden drop in transfer efficiency just before the
explosion. 
JA'DAR [on viewscreen]: Are you still tracking the wave? 
LAFORGE: No, the explosion damaged our main sensor array, but I think
we'll have it repaired in a couple of hours. 
PICARD: We'll contact you as soon as the sensors are back online. 
LAFORGE: Doctor. You did it. Warp without warp drive. For a while there
it was really something to see. 
JA'DAR [on viewscreen]: Well, I hope you're here to see it next time we
try, Mister La Forge. 
LAFORGE: So do I, Doctor.

[Mrs. Kyle's office]

WORF: I apologise. I was detained. 
KYLE: It's quite all right. Please sit down. 
WORF: Thank you. 
KYLE: Lieutenant, your son is a very bright, very spirited young man.
From his test scores, I'm sure he'll turn out to be one of my best
students. However, from his behaviour in class so far, I do have some
concerns. 
WORF: What sort of concerns? 
KYLE: Frankly, he's defiant, he's overly aggressive toward the other
students, and he has a great deal of difficulty paying attention. 
WORF: Perhaps you do not have experience dealing with Klingon children.
They require a firm hand. 
KYLE: And he seems to still have difficulty telling the truth. He takes
toys from other the other students and then denies taking them. He acts
like a bully and then says someone else started the fight. And he's
bluntly told me you said Klingons do not listen to teachers. 
WORF: I did not tell him that. 
KYLE: No, of course not. He's acting on his internal feelings and then
making up stories to explain them. It might be a good idea for the two
of you to sit down with Counsellor Troi and 
WORF: Computer, where is Alexander Rozhenko? 
COMPUTER: Alexander Rozhenko is on holodeck four. 
KYLE: Lieutenant, I think we should 
WORF: I will handle this.

