COMPUTER KYLE WORF ALEXANDER

[Mrs. Kyle's office]

WORF: I apologise. I was detained. 
KYLE: It's quite all right. Please sit down. 
WORF: Thank you. 
KYLE: Lieutenant, your son is a very bright, very spirited young man.
From his test scores, I'm sure he'll turn out to be one of my best
students. However, from his behaviour in class so far, I do have some
concerns. 
WORF: What sort of concerns? 
KYLE: Frankly, he's defiant, he's overly aggressive toward the other
students, and he has a great deal of difficulty paying attention. 
WORF: Perhaps you do not have experience dealing with Klingon children.
They require a firm hand. 
KYLE: And he seems to still have difficulty telling the truth. He takes
toys from other the other students and then denies taking them. He acts
like a bully and then says someone else started the fight. And he's
bluntly told me you said Klingons do not listen to teachers. 
WORF: I did not tell him that. 
KYLE: No, of course not. He's acting on his internal feelings and then
making up stories to explain them. It might be a good idea for the two
of you to sit down with Counsellor Troi and 
WORF: Computer, where is Alexander Rozhenko? 
COMPUTER: Alexander Rozhenko is on holodeck four. 
KYLE: Lieutenant, I think we should 
WORF: I will handle this.

[Corridor]

WORF: Computer, what programme is being run? 
COMPUTER: Calisthenics programme of Lieutenant Worf. Difficulty level,
Novice.

[Holodeck]

(Alexander is on the defensive for most of the time
until he gets a lucky swing) 
WORF: Computer, freeze programme. 
ALEXANDER: Did you see it, Father? I won. 
WORF: Yes, I saw. Why are you here? 
ALEXANDER: I'm training. 
WORF: But you did not ask permission to take my bat'leth, or permission
to use the holodeck. 
ALEXANDER: You said you wanted me to be a warrior. 
WORF: I also said I wanted you to obey your teachers and keep your
promise to me. Ms. Kyle has told me about your behaviour. About your
lies. 
ALEXANDER: I have not lied! 
WORF: Alexander, do not continue to 
ALEXANDER: She's lying! She hates me, that's why she makes up stories
about me! 
WORF: I will not listen to more lies. Return to our quarters. 
ALEXANDER: You said we could go see the gilvos again. 
WORF: Not now. Not after you have broken your word. 
ALEXANDER: You promised. You said that we could. 
WORF: Enough! It is now clear to me that I have failed in my duties as
your father. You have no understanding about what it means to be
Klingon. I will arrange for you to attend a Klingon school. There you
will learn the lessons I have failed to teach you. 
ALEXANDER: No! I won't go! 
WORF: Would you further dishonour our family with your disobedience? 
ALEXANDER: No, sir. 
WORF: You will go to our quarters and remain there until I return.

