TIMOTHY TROI LAFORGE WORF PICARD RIKER CRUSHER DATA

[Corridor]

TIMOTHY: Data! Can we build something else later? 
DATA: That would be acceptable. 
TIMOTHY: Bye. 
[Timothy's quarters]

(looking in the mirror) 
TIMOTHY: I am designed to exceed human capacity. tilts head) That is
correct. 
[Observation lounge]

DATA: The Black Cluster was formed almost nine
billion years ago when hundreds of protostars collapsed in close
proximity. The resulting gravitational forces are both violent and
highly unpredictable. 
LAFORGE: To get anywhere near the centre, we're going to have to push
through the gravitational wavefronts like the science vessel was
designed to do. I've already adjusted our shields accordingly. 
WORF: The gravitational forces will affect sensor accuracy. Detecting
an enemy vessel will be difficult. 
RIKER: Maybe that's what happened to the Vico. They didn't see anything
coming until it was too late. 
PICARD: Counsellor, has the boy volunteered any further information? 
TROI: No, but I do have an appointment with him in less than half an
hour. 
PICARD: If there's a possibility of getting more from him, I'd like you
to pursue it. But we need to continue our investigation. We'll enter
the Black Cluster at oh seven hundred hours tomorrow morning.
Dismissed.

[Corridor]

(Troi rings the bell of 08-1402 and Timothy opens
the door. He's wearing a jumper with a gold body section like a
starfleet uniform) 
TROI: Hello, Timothy. Are you ready to go? 
TIMOTHY: Yes, Counsellor. I am ready. 
TROI: How are you feeling? 
TIMOTHY: I am functioning within established parameters. 
TROI: Established parameters? You sound like Data. 
TIMOTHY: I am an android. 
TROI: I see. Well, let's go for our walk, shall we? 
TIMOTHY: That would be acceptable.

[Ten Forward]

TROI: So, what would you like? 
TIMOTHY: Androids do not need to eat or drink. (spots a dessert being
carried by a waiter) However, sometimes we like to taste things. A
Tamarin frost, please.
Would you like anything, Counsellor? 
TROI: No, I'm fine, thank you. 
TIMOTHY: As you wish. 
TROI: So you're no longer a human? 
TIMOTHY: I'm an android. 
TROI: When did this happen? 
TIMOTHY: I've always been an android. 
TROI: What's it like being an android? 
TIMOTHY: I am designed to exceed human capacity, both mentally and
physically. But I do not experience emotions. 
TROI: You don't? No emotion at all? 
TIMOTHY: That is correct.

[Ready room]

(Data is included in the meeting) 
PICARD: An android? 
TROI: I know it sounds unusual, but it is understandable. Technically,
it's called enantiodromia. Conversion into
the opposite. Timothy went from human to machine, from being emotional
to being emotionless. But the underlying trauma is still there. He's
just found a new way to suppress it. 
PICARD: Counsellor, how long will this behaviour last? 
TROI: As long as he needs it to. Timothy is rebuilding his identity as
best he can. The android persona is just one step along the way. As
soon as he feels stronger and more sure of himself, it should drop away
naturally. 
PICARD: I assume this is not a time to confront him about what happened
to his ship. 
TROI: Not yet. The best thing we can do right now is to let Timothy
take us where he wants to go. We should support the process and even
encourage it. 
PICARD: Data, I would like you to make Timothy the best android he can
possibly be.

[Timothy's quarters]

(Data checks his appearance in the mirror, then
tries to brush Timothy's hair to match his own) 
DATA: Timothy, your head movements are counterproductive. Can you be
still? 
TIMOTHY: But you do it. 
DATA: The servo mechanisms in my neck are designed to approximate human
movements. I did not realize the effect was so distracting. 
TIMOTHY: I like it. Data, are there any other androids in Starfleet? 
DATA: No. I am the only one. 
TIMOTHY: How come you're not Captain? 
DATA: My service experience does not yet warrant such a position. 
TIMOTHY: Data, what's the scariest thing that ever happened to you? 
DATA: Fear is a quality that I do not possess. 
TIMOTHY: Because it's an emotion? 
DATA: Correct. 
TIMOTHY: But what if you had a nightmare? 
DATA: I have never had a nightmare. I do not require sleep. Timothy,
are you having disturbing dreams? 
TIMOTHY: I do not require sleep. 
DATA: Is that satisfactory? (the hair) 
TIMOTHY: It's perfect.

[Sickbay]

CRUSHER: Transfer circuits are functioning
properly. 
TIMOTHY: Within established parameters? 
CRUSHER: Absolutely. Input processing, pattern recognition, all within
established parameters. 
DATA + TIMOTHY: Thank you, Doctor.

