TIMOTHY TROI LAFORGE WORF PICARD LAFORGE [OC] RIKER DATA
sector fine uniform understandable went protostars meeting haven jumper

[Bridge]

(at the science station) 
LAFORGE: Magnetic residual analysis confirms that the Vico was attacked
inside the Black Cluster. The graviton wave fronts pushed the ship to
where we found it. 
PICARD: No signs of phaser burns on the hull. 
LAFORGE: No, sir. Torsional stress levels point to a disrupter-style
weapon. 
DATA: Fracture points indicate that the energy burst came from a range
of less than three thousand metres. 
PICARD: But that's a strategy consistent with a cloaked vessel.
Romulan. Or Klingon. But we're quite a distance from either of their
territories. 
DATA: The Breen have outposts in this sector. The attack on the Vico is
consistent with their battle tactics and their level of technology. 
PICARD: Thank you, Data. But what would the Breen be doing inside the
Black Cluster? The boy described a boarding party with helmets and
phaser rifles. 
LAFORGE: Boarding party? I don't think that's likely, sir. 
(Troi enters) 
PICARD: Counsellor. 
LAFORGE: There was absolutely no evidence of anybody coming on board
the Vico. We would have found a transporter field trace. Or if somebody
had used the entry ports, we would have found an electrostatic
differential in the docking latches, and we didn't. Could Timothy have
imagined that, Counsellor? 
PICARD: Or could he be lying? 
TROI: If he's lying, I haven't been able to sense it. Perhaps his
emotional trauma level is too high. 
PICARD: Why wouldn't he tell us the truth? 
TROI: He's still in shock. it's hard to know what's going on in his
mind right now. 
LAFORGE: Well, I'll go back and check the sensor readings again but I
don't think we're going to find anything. 
PICARD: Thank you, Geordi. 
(La Forge leaves) 
TROI: Data. Captain, I think we should ask Data to spend some time with
him. 
DATA: I do not understand. 
TROI: I'm very worried about his behaviour and what I've just heard
doesn't make me feel any better. Data, you're the only
one he's reached out to, because you rescued him. We can use your
relationship with him to help his recovery. 
PICARD: Would Timothy also be more inclined to tell Data the truth
about what happened? 
TROI: It's a possibility. 
PICARD: Commander, proceed with Timothy as the Counsellor suggests. 
DATA: Aye, sir. 
(Picard leaves) 
DATA: Counsellor, exactly how shall I proceed? 
TROI: Just be with him. You're a presence he trusts, and that's what he
needs most right now. 
[Timothy's quarters]

(Timothy is working on the temple sculpture he was
doing in class earlier when the doorbell rings) 
TIMOTHY: What? 
(Data enters) 
TIMOTHY: Data. 
DATA: Hello, Timothy. May I enter? 
TIMOTHY: Yeah. 
DATA: Ah. You are attempting to recreate the Dokkaran temple of Kural
Hanesh? 
TIMOTHY: Isn't it great?! See, there's the big hallway the teacher told
us about. That's where everybody came in. That's where they stood. And
that's where the altar was. What do you think? 
DATA: Do you wish a frank evaluation? (nod) It lacks the harmony that
characterised this particular temple and Dokkaran culture in general. 
(Timothy flops onto a chair) 
TIMOTHY: You hate it. 
DATA: No, I am not capable of hatred. 
TIMOTHY: I can't do anything right. 
DATA: You are making an unwarranted extrapolation. I was merely
offering an aesthetic analysis of this particular model. The base
appears quite sturdy. 
(Timothy comes back and starts again, but tries to put a ceiling on
with only half it's supports available. It falls) 
TIMOTHY: I told you. 
DATA: May I suggest a different approach? You were attempting to
construct the upper level before the supports were in place. Observe. 
LAFORGE [OC]: La Forge to Data. 
DATA: Data here. 
LAFORGE [OC]: I need your help with the shield modulators. 
DATA: I will join you in a moment, Geordi. Data out. Lieutenant La
Forge requires my assistance. 
(Data turns to go, then goes back and builds the temple very quickly) 
TIMOTHY: Incredible. Data, how come you can do that? 
DATA: I am designed to exceed human capacity, both mentally and
physically. 
TIMOTHY: Androids are better than humans? 
DATA: Better is a highly subjective term. I do not, for example,
possess the ability to experience emotion as humans do. 
TIMOTHY: No emotions? You mean you can't be happy or sad? 
DATA: That is correct. 
TIMOTHY: Why not? 
DATA: My positronic brain is not capable of generating those
conditions. Goodbye. 
[Corridor]

TIMOTHY: Data! Can we build something else later? 
DATA: That would be acceptable. 
TIMOTHY: Bye. 
[Timothy's quarters]

(looking in the mirror) 
TIMOTHY: I am designed to exceed human capacity. tilts head) That is
correct. 
[Observation lounge]

DATA: The Black Cluster was formed almost nine
billion years ago when hundreds of protostars collapsed in close
proximity. The resulting gravitational forces are both violent and
highly unpredictable. 
LAFORGE: To get anywhere near the centre, we're going to have to push
through the gravitational wavefronts like the science vessel was
designed to do. I've already adjusted our shields accordingly. 
WORF: The gravitational forces will affect sensor accuracy. Detecting
an enemy vessel will be difficult. 
RIKER: Maybe that's what happened to the Vico. They didn't see anything
coming until it was too late. 
PICARD: Counsellor, has the boy volunteered any further information? 
TROI: No, but I do have an appointment with him in less than half an
hour. 
PICARD: If there's a possibility of getting more from him, I'd like you
to pursue it. But we need to continue our investigation. We'll enter
the Black Cluster at oh seven hundred hours tomorrow morning.
Dismissed.

[Corridor]

(Troi rings the bell of 08-1402 and Timothy opens
the door. He's wearing a jumper with a gold body section like a
starfleet uniform) 
TROI: Hello, Timothy. Are you ready to go? 
TIMOTHY: Yes, Counsellor. I am ready. 
TROI: How are you feeling? 
TIMOTHY: I am functioning within established parameters. 
TROI: Established parameters? You sound like Data. 
TIMOTHY: I am an android. 
TROI: I see. Well, let's go for our walk, shall we? 
TIMOTHY: That would be acceptable.

[Ten Forward]

TROI: So, what would you like? 
TIMOTHY: Androids do not need to eat or drink. (spots a dessert being
carried by a waiter) However, sometimes we like to taste things. A
Tamarin frost, please.
Would you like anything, Counsellor? 
TROI: No, I'm fine, thank you. 
TIMOTHY: As you wish. 
TROI: So you're no longer a human? 
TIMOTHY: I'm an android. 
TROI: When did this happen? 
TIMOTHY: I've always been an android. 
TROI: What's it like being an android? 
TIMOTHY: I am designed to exceed human capacity, both mentally and
physically. But I do not experience emotions. 
TROI: You don't? No emotion at all? 
TIMOTHY: That is correct.

[Ready room]

(Data is included in the meeting) 
PICARD: An android? 
TROI: I know it sounds unusual, but it is understandable. Technically,
it's called enantiodromia. Conversion into
the opposite. Timothy went from human to machine, from being emotional
to being emotionless. But the underlying trauma is still there. He's
just found a new way to suppress it. 
PICARD: Counsellor, how long will this behaviour last? 
TROI: As long as he needs it to. Timothy is rebuilding his identity as
best he can. The android persona is just one step along the way. As
soon as he feels stronger and more sure of himself, it should drop away
naturally. 
PICARD: I assume this is not a time to confront him about what happened
to his ship. 
TROI: Not yet. The best thing we can do right now is to let Timothy
take us where he wants to go. We should support the process and even
encourage it. 
PICARD: Data, I would like you to make Timothy the best android he can
possibly be.

