TIMOTHY TROI LAFORGE PICARD CRUSHER DATA TEACHER

[Vico]

TIMOTHY: Are you're going to lift that? 
DATA: Yes. Then I will take you to the corridor. We will transport back
to the Enterprise from there. Do you understand? 
TIMOTHY: How come you can pick up something so heavy? 
DATA: I am an android. My strength is many times that of a human. It is
going to be okay. I will count to three. One two three. 
(he pushes up the beam with one hand, Timothy wriggles out and runs.
Data drops the beam and follows, picking the boy up when he stumbles at
the steps)
DATA: Energise.

Captain's log, supplemental. A thorough search of
the Vico has revealed no additional survivors. We have begun the
process of counselling the boy with regard to the tragedy.

[Sickbay]

CRUSHER: Don't be afraid. 
(a little while later) 
TIMOTHY: We were in the Black Cluster. I don't know where they came
from. They had a big ship and they kept shooting at us. Then they
beamed over. They had purple helmets on and phaser rifles. I saw them.
They didn't see me. 
CRUSHER: You're safe now, Timothy. I'm sorry for what happened. It's
going to be all right. I bet you're hungry. Would you like me to get
you something to eat? 
(Timothy nods and Crusher leaves) 
DATA: Counsellor, I must join Commander La Forge in Engineering. If you
will excuse me. 
(but Timothy is holding onto Data's hand) 
TROI: Timothy, would you like Data to stay with you a little bit
longer?
(a little nod)

[Engineering]

(looking at a schematic of the Vico on a wall
monitor) 
LAFORGE: Sections of the primary and secondary hull were torn right
off. The shearing planes are here, here, and here. 
PICARD: How much longer till we can access their logs? 
LAFORGE: Almost an hour. 
PICARD: The boy was here. 
LAFORGE: The hallway outside the computer core. His mother was the
ship's systems engineer. The second away team found her
body here inside the core. 
PICARD: And his father? 
LAFORGE: Ship's second officer. He was most likely on the bridge when
it was exposed to space. 
PICARD: Most likely. 
[Sickbay]

(Timothy falls asleep and Data is freed from his
grip) 
CRUSHER: He'll sleep for a few hours at least. I don't need to keep him
here but I will need to see him again tomorrow.
You've got some work cut out for you. 
TROI: His world is gone, Data. We're going to have to help him build a
new one.

[Engineering]

LAFORGE: This is not good. Whatever hit the Vico
must have set up an EM pulse that flashed through their computer banks.

DATA: Nearly eighty three percent of their records have been lost. 
LAFORGE: And all of their sensor logs. Let's use what we got from our
own sensors. I'll call up the structural analysis and the surface
scans. 
DATA: Geordi, as a child, did you ever experience a traumatic event? 
LAFORGE: You're wondering about Timothy? 
DATA: Yes. 
LAFORGE: I was caught in a fire once. I must have been, I don't know,
about five, I guess. It was before I got the first visor. And it was
only a couple of minutes before my parents found me and pulled me out.
And nobody got hurt, but I tell you that was the longest couple of
minutes of my life. It was a while after that before I could even let
my parents get out of earshot. It was like I absolutely needed to know
that they were there, you know? 
DATA: Timothy no longer has that kind of support. 
LAFORGE: Yeah. 
[Classroom]

(the male teacher is reading aloud to the quiet and
attentive pupils, who are following on their PADDS, except one) 
TEACHER: Dara and her brother found themselves in the land of Tagas
where the ruler, Elamos the Magnificent, had proclaimed as law. 'No
children will be tolerated within the Great Kingdom'. When Dara saw the
proclamation, she just laughed, and said, 'How magnificent a ruler, to
be frightened by the likes of us.' Timothy, we're done with sculpture
for now. 
TIMOTHY: It's not finished. 
(putting a portico on a model building) 
TEACHER: We'll come back to it next period. Why don't you pick up your
mythology book and follow along? 
TIMOTHY: But it's not finished. 
(the worried teacher casts a glance towards Troi watching through the
window)

[Bridge]

(at the science station) 
LAFORGE: Magnetic residual analysis confirms that the Vico was attacked
inside the Black Cluster. The graviton wave fronts pushed the ship to
where we found it. 
PICARD: No signs of phaser burns on the hull. 
LAFORGE: No, sir. Torsional stress levels point to a disrupter-style
weapon. 
DATA: Fracture points indicate that the energy burst came from a range
of less than three thousand metres. 
PICARD: But that's a strategy consistent with a cloaked vessel.
Romulan. Or Klingon. But we're quite a distance from either of their
territories. 
DATA: The Breen have outposts in this sector. The attack on the Vico is
consistent with their battle tactics and their level of technology. 
PICARD: Thank you, Data. But what would the Breen be doing inside the
Black Cluster? The boy described a boarding party with helmets and
phaser rifles. 
LAFORGE: Boarding party? I don't think that's likely, sir. 
(Troi enters) 
PICARD: Counsellor. 
LAFORGE: There was absolutely no evidence of anybody coming on board
the Vico. We would have found a transporter field trace. Or if somebody
had used the entry ports, we would have found an electrostatic
differential in the docking latches, and we didn't. Could Timothy have
imagined that, Counsellor? 
PICARD: Or could he be lying? 
TROI: If he's lying, I haven't been able to sense it. Perhaps his
emotional trauma level is too high. 
PICARD: Why wouldn't he tell us the truth? 
TROI: He's still in shock. it's hard to know what's going on in his
mind right now. 
LAFORGE: Well, I'll go back and check the sensor readings again but I
don't think we're going to find anything. 
PICARD: Thank you, Geordi. 
(La Forge leaves) 
TROI: Data. Captain, I think we should ask Data to spend some time with
him. 
DATA: I do not understand. 
TROI: I'm very worried about his behaviour and what I've just heard
doesn't make me feel any better. Data, you're the only
one he's reached out to, because you rescued him. We can use your
relationship with him to help his recovery. 
PICARD: Would Timothy also be more inclined to tell Data the truth
about what happened? 
TROI: It's a possibility. 
PICARD: Commander, proceed with Timothy as the Counsellor suggests. 
DATA: Aye, sir. 
(Picard leaves) 
DATA: Counsellor, exactly how shall I proceed? 
TROI: Just be with him. You're a presence he trusts, and that's what he
needs most right now. 
[Timothy's quarters]

(Timothy is working on the temple sculpture he was
doing in class earlier when the doorbell rings) 
TIMOTHY: What? 
(Data enters) 
TIMOTHY: Data. 
DATA: Hello, Timothy. May I enter? 
TIMOTHY: Yeah. 
DATA: Ah. You are attempting to recreate the Dokkaran temple of Kural
Hanesh? 
TIMOTHY: Isn't it great?! See, there's the big hallway the teacher told
us about. That's where everybody came in. That's where they stood. And
that's where the altar was. What do you think? 
DATA: Do you wish a frank evaluation? (nod) It lacks the harmony that
characterised this particular temple and Dokkaran culture in general. 
(Timothy flops onto a chair) 
TIMOTHY: You hate it. 
DATA: No, I am not capable of hatred. 
TIMOTHY: I can't do anything right. 
DATA: You are making an unwarranted extrapolation. I was merely
offering an aesthetic analysis of this particular model. The base
appears quite sturdy. 
(Timothy comes back and starts again, but tries to put a ceiling on
with only half it's supports available. It falls) 
TIMOTHY: I told you. 
DATA: May I suggest a different approach? You were attempting to
construct the upper level before the supports were in place. Observe. 
LAFORGE [OC]: La Forge to Data. 
DATA: Data here. 
LAFORGE [OC]: I need your help with the shield modulators. 
DATA: I will join you in a moment, Geordi. Data out. Lieutenant La
Forge requires my assistance. 
(Data turns to go, then goes back and builds the temple very quickly) 
TIMOTHY: Incredible. Data, how come you can do that? 
DATA: I am designed to exceed human capacity, both mentally and
physically. 
TIMOTHY: Androids are better than humans? 
DATA: Better is a highly subjective term. I do not, for example,
possess the ability to experience emotion as humans do. 
TIMOTHY: No emotions? You mean you can't be happy or sad? 
DATA: That is correct. 
TIMOTHY: Why not? 
DATA: My positronic brain is not capable of generating those
conditions. Goodbye. 
