TIMOTHY TROI LAFORGE WORF DATA [OC] PICARD LAFORGE [OC] RIKER FELTON DATA TROI [OC]
room tasting recall androids likely zero systems ready carbon

[Engineering]

LAFORGE: Adjusting shield frequencies now,
Commander. We'll have this smoothed out in just a second. 
[Bridge]

RIKER: Ensign, adjust course for any deviations. 
FELTON: Yes, sir. 
RIKER: Resume one third impulse. 
WORF: Captain, I am reading something at four hundred thousand
kilometres off the starboard bow. Possibly a ship. 
RIKER: Red alert. 
PICARD: Take us to visual range, Ensign. 
FELTON: Adjusting course. 
WORF: Sensor readings have disappeared. Wait, I am picking up another
reading at four hundred thousand kilometres off the port bow.
It's gone. No, it is back to starboard. 
RIKER: Captain, the Black Cluster is distorting the sensors. We're
picking up echoes of the Enterprise reflecting off the wavefronts. 
PICARD: Cancel Red alert. Mister Worf, adjust the sensors to compensate
for the distortion. 
WORF: Aye. 
PICARD: Sensor difficulties have been reported by ships travelling
through black clusters, but never this extreme. 
WORF: Captain, that formation is seven times more massive than any
explored previously. That could explain the difference. 
PICARD: Resume previous course, Ensign. 
FELTON: Yes, sir.

[Classroom observation area]

(Data and Troi are watching Timothy with two other
children) 
DATA: He laughed. 
TROI: Yes. It's nice to see, isn't it? 
DATA: It is certainly not consistent with his android persona. 
TROI: I'd say he's beginning the process of letting go of that fantasy.

DATA: Then my work with him is done. 
TROI: No, I don't think it is, Data. A laugh is one step in the right
direction. We need to help him take a few more steps. 
DATA: How, Counsellor? 
TROI: I'd like you to talk to him about your own fascination with
humanity. If you can explain to Timothy the appeal that humanity has
for you, he might find it easier to become a boy again.

[Ten Forward]

(Data and Timothy are solemnly sucking tall drinks
through long straws) 
TIMOTHY: This is great. How is yours? 
DATA: The complex polysaccharides, in reaction with the carbon dioxide,
produces an unusual combination of texture and
effervescence. 
TIMOTHY: But how does it taste? Is it good? 
DATA: I am not capable of tasting in the manner you suggest. However, I
can analyse the composition of a dessert and make comparative
conclusions about its possible effect on the human palate. But I
neither like it nor dislike it. 
TIMOTHY: Oh. I didn't realise that. 
DATA: I have often wondered what it must be like to have one's mouth
water in anticipation of the arrival of a confection, or to feel the
pleasure I have observed in humans as they consume it. 
TIMOTHY: You sound like you don't want to be an android. 
DATA: I am an android. That will never change. 
TIMOTHY: But if you could change, would you? 
DATA: I have often wished to be human. I study people carefully in
order to more closely approximate human behaviour. 
TIMOTHY: Why? We're stronger and smarter than humans. We can do more
than they can. 
DATA: But I cannot take pride in my abilities. I cannot take pleasure
in my accomplishments. 
TIMOTHY: But we never have to feel bad, either. 
DATA: I would gladly risk feeling bad at times if it also meant that I
could also taste my dessert.

[Bridge]

WORF: Captain, gravitational wavefront intensity is
increasing steadily. Eleven hundred standard G units and rising. 
PICARD: Let's see if anyone's out there. Mister Worf, attempt a wide
range sensor sweep. 
WORF: Aye, sir. Gravitational distortion is too great, Captain. The
scanning signal is again being reflected off the wavefronts. I am
unable to compensate. The sensors are useless. 
PICARD: Mister Data to the Bridge, please. 
DATA [OC]: Acknowledged. 
PICARD: Adjust sensors to short range. Attempt a limited positron scan.

WORF: The distortion is still in effect. 
RIKER: Better jacket the scanning beam. 
WORF: The secondary beam is being distorted as well. 
(Data enters) 
PICARD: Mister Data, our sensors have been rendered ineffective by the
field distortion. I want your analysis. Mister Worf, fire phasers,
maximum intensity, limited spectrum. Zero zero one mark zero four five.

RIKER: An experiment, Captain? 
PICARD: Exactly, Number One. 
WORF: Firing phasers. 
(the single shot branches off in several directions) 
PICARD: Explanation, Mister Data. 
DATA: Phaser energy was reflected by the gravitational wavefronts. It
is similar to the phenomenon distorting our sensor signals. 
PICARD: Phasers and sensors both useless? Mister Data, this reflection
phenomenon, would it have the same effect on a disruptor-style weapon? 
DATA: Yes, sir. Disruptors would be ineffectual. 
PICARD: And a ship's cloaking field? 
DATA: It would be extremely difficult to maintain. 
PICARD: Mister Data, is it at all likely that the Vico could have been
attacked inside the cluster? 
DATA: Given the effects we have observed, the probability is
exceedingly remote, sir. 
PICARD: Picard to Counsellor Troi. 
TROI [OC]: Yes, Captain? 
PICARD: Counsellor, will you bring Timothy to my Ready room?

[Ready room]

PICARD: Timothy, can you tell us what happened to
your ship? 
TIMOTHY: I did tell you. 
TROI: Tell us again. 
TIMOTHY: We were attacked. 
DATA: That is highly unlikely. Our investigations have clearly
demonstrated 
TIMOTHY: We were attacked! We were attacked! 
DATA: Timothy, androids do not lie. 
TIMOTHY: It was me. 
DATA: Please explain. 
TIMOTHY: It was me. I did it. I killed them all. Everything was
shaking. I lost my balance. I was just trying to hold on to something.
I didn't mean to do it. 
PICARD: What was it that didn't you mean to do, Timothy? 
TIMOTHY: My arm hit the computer panel. That's what destroyed the ship.

TROI: The ship was damaged when your arm hit the computer panel?
Timothy, listen to me. The damage to your ship might have occurred at
the same time your arm touched the panel, but it was only a
coincidence. This wasn't your fault. 
TIMOTHY: Yes it was. 
DATA: It is not possible. The onboard control systems for every
starship require a user code clearance. You could not have
inadvertently affected any of the Vico's systems. 
PICARD: Your computer had safety precautions. There is nothing you
could have touched that would have damaged your ship. 
TROI: You're not responsible for what happened to your parents,
Timothy. 
TIMOTHY: But if it wasn't me 
PICARD: We're trying to determine what happened right now, and if there
is anything you can remember that may assist 
(they shake from a wavefront) 
TIMOTHY: That's just how it was when it started on the Vico. 
[Bridge]

WORF: Wavefront intensity has increased. 
RIKER: Increase shields to seventy five percent. 
WORF: Aye, sir. 
(a big wave sets off alarms) 
RIKER: Damage, Mister Worf. 
WORF: Minimal, sir. Shields are holding. 
(Picard, Timothy and Troi enter) 
PICARD: Ensign, full about. Go to warp two. 
FELTON: The gravitational distortion is too high. We can't maintain a
warp field. 
PICARD: Full shields. 
WORF: Aye. 
FELTON: Captain, impulse power has been disrupted. The helm won't
respond. 
TIMOTHY: We couldn't get out either. 
TROI: Timothy, perhaps you and I should go below and get out of
everyone's way. 
TIMOTHY: No. 
RIKER: Riker to La Forge. Can you give me more power to the shields? 
LAFORGE [OC]: Stand by. 
TIMOTHY: That's what they kept saying. More shields, more shields. 
DATA: Timothy, accompany me, please. (go to science station) I want you
to recall everything you heard people say aboard the Vico before it was
destroyed. 
TIMOTHY: I don't know. Just that. Just more shields. 
LAFORGE [OC]: Captain, I've transferred 
[Engineering]

LAFORGE: Fusion reactors four through nine into the
shield array. That should double the shield strength.

