TIMOTHY TROI LAFORGE WORF PICARD RIKER FELTON CRUSHER DATA

[Ready room]

(Data is included in the meeting) 
PICARD: An android? 
TROI: I know it sounds unusual, but it is understandable. Technically,
it's called enantiodromia. Conversion into
the opposite. Timothy went from human to machine, from being emotional
to being emotionless. But the underlying trauma is still there. He's
just found a new way to suppress it. 
PICARD: Counsellor, how long will this behaviour last? 
TROI: As long as he needs it to. Timothy is rebuilding his identity as
best he can. The android persona is just one step along the way. As
soon as he feels stronger and more sure of himself, it should drop away
naturally. 
PICARD: I assume this is not a time to confront him about what happened
to his ship. 
TROI: Not yet. The best thing we can do right now is to let Timothy
take us where he wants to go. We should support the process and even
encourage it. 
PICARD: Data, I would like you to make Timothy the best android he can
possibly be.

[Timothy's quarters]

(Data checks his appearance in the mirror, then
tries to brush Timothy's hair to match his own) 
DATA: Timothy, your head movements are counterproductive. Can you be
still? 
TIMOTHY: But you do it. 
DATA: The servo mechanisms in my neck are designed to approximate human
movements. I did not realize the effect was so distracting. 
TIMOTHY: I like it. Data, are there any other androids in Starfleet? 
DATA: No. I am the only one. 
TIMOTHY: How come you're not Captain? 
DATA: My service experience does not yet warrant such a position. 
TIMOTHY: Data, what's the scariest thing that ever happened to you? 
DATA: Fear is a quality that I do not possess. 
TIMOTHY: Because it's an emotion? 
DATA: Correct. 
TIMOTHY: But what if you had a nightmare? 
DATA: I have never had a nightmare. I do not require sleep. Timothy,
are you having disturbing dreams? 
TIMOTHY: I do not require sleep. 
DATA: Is that satisfactory? (the hair) 
TIMOTHY: It's perfect.

[Sickbay]

CRUSHER: Transfer circuits are functioning
properly. 
TIMOTHY: Within established parameters? 
CRUSHER: Absolutely. Input processing, pattern recognition, all within
established parameters. 
DATA + TIMOTHY: Thank you, Doctor.

[Data's quarters]

(They are both painting - Data is doing a
traditional pastoral landscape whilst Timothy's image is, well, angry) 
TIMOTHY: I ran out of red ochre. 
DATA: You may use mine. 
TIMOTHY: Thank you. (yawns) 
DATA: Perhaps you should return to your quarters. 
TIMOTHY: I'm fine. The servo mechanisms in my mouth are designed to
approximate human movements. 
(Data tries a yawn) 
TIMOTHY: That is not bad. 
DATA: Thank you. (re painting) It is very expressive. 
TIMOTHY: Thank you. 
DATA: Is your painting representative of something? 
TIMOTHY: It's just a painting. 
DATA: Timothy, you understand that you may speak with me about anything
you wish? Any subject? 
TIMOTHY: I understand. 
DATA: At times, I too find it difficult to share my thoughts with
others. I am not always confident that I am expressing myself in a
manner which humans can comprehend. But do I know that 
(Data sees that Timothy has fallen asleep and carries him to the couch)

[Bridge]

WORF: We are approaching the perimeter. I'm picking
up the gravitational wavefronts. 
RIKER: Engage forward shields thirty five percent. 
WORF: Shields up. 
(the ship rocks in the waves) 
PICARD: Drop to one quarter impulse, Ensign. 
FELTON: Yes, sir. 
RIKER: Bridge to Engineering.

[Engineering]

LAFORGE: Adjusting shield frequencies now,
Commander. We'll have this smoothed out in just a second. 
[Bridge]

RIKER: Ensign, adjust course for any deviations. 
FELTON: Yes, sir. 
RIKER: Resume one third impulse. 
WORF: Captain, I am reading something at four hundred thousand
kilometres off the starboard bow. Possibly a ship. 
RIKER: Red alert. 
PICARD: Take us to visual range, Ensign. 
FELTON: Adjusting course. 
WORF: Sensor readings have disappeared. Wait, I am picking up another
reading at four hundred thousand kilometres off the port bow.
It's gone. No, it is back to starboard. 
RIKER: Captain, the Black Cluster is distorting the sensors. We're
picking up echoes of the Enterprise reflecting off the wavefronts. 
PICARD: Cancel Red alert. Mister Worf, adjust the sensors to compensate
for the distortion. 
WORF: Aye. 
PICARD: Sensor difficulties have been reported by ships travelling
through black clusters, but never this extreme. 
WORF: Captain, that formation is seven times more massive than any
explored previously. That could explain the difference. 
PICARD: Resume previous course, Ensign. 
FELTON: Yes, sir.

[Classroom observation area]

(Data and Troi are watching Timothy with two other
children) 
DATA: He laughed. 
TROI: Yes. It's nice to see, isn't it? 
DATA: It is certainly not consistent with his android persona. 
TROI: I'd say he's beginning the process of letting go of that fantasy.

DATA: Then my work with him is done. 
TROI: No, I don't think it is, Data. A laugh is one step in the right
direction. We need to help him take a few more steps. 
DATA: How, Counsellor? 
TROI: I'd like you to talk to him about your own fascination with
humanity. If you can explain to Timothy the appeal that humanity has
for you, he might find it easier to become a boy again.

