TROI JEV LAFORGE DATA [OC] PICARD INAD DATA TARMIN
unexplained centuries stations cause ll severe spills doubts true

[Bridge]

(at the aft science stations) 
LAFORGE: Well, that's it for Melina Two. No unexplained comas during
the time the Ullians were working there. 
DATA: We have yet to receive transmissions from the two planets of the
Nel system. Perhaps they will show different results. 
LAFORGE: Maybe. Or maybe we're not checking for the right thing. 
DATA: Please clarify. 
LAFORGE: We haven't look into the comas that were explained. 
DATA: Why would we do that? 
LAFORGE: Well, remember what Doctor Crusher said right after Counsellor
Troi became unconscious? That it looked exactly like Iresine syndrome
except for the histamine count? 
DATA: Yes. 
LAFORGE: Maybe not every medical facility is as careful as Doctor
Crusher. Maybe it's easier to just make a quick diagnosis rather than
to keep hunting for the real cause. 
DATA: You are searching for instances of Iresine syndrome? 
LAFORGE: Right, and correlating them with visits by the Ullians. And
there we are. 
DATA: Two cases of Iresine syndrome on Hurada Three, at exactly the
time Tarmin and his group was there. 
LAFORGE: Let's check the other planets. I think we may have something
here.

[Troi's quarters]

(Inad is also present) 
PICARD: Counsellor, I want to reiterate, if you have any doubts
whatsoever about this procedure, you don't have to go through with it. 
TROI: I want to do it, Captain. Something awful happened to me and I
don't even know what it was. 
PICARD: Very well. 
JEV: Counsellor, what's the last thing you remember the other night? 
TROI: Brushing my hair. 
JEV: Would you get your hairbrush? 
JEV: Tell me about brushing your hair. Do you do it every night? 
TROI: Yes, when I'm ready for bed. 
JEV: What is it? 
TROI: Someone touching my hair. 
JEV: Someone's with you in the room? 
TROI: No. No, I'm alone. There's no one there. 
JEV: Go on. 
TROI: I get some hot chocolate. 
JEV: Something's happening. 
TROI: I'm alone in my quarters. I'm remembering something from a few
years ago. 
JEV: Go back into that memory. You said someone was touching your hair?

TROI: Yes. And. 
(she spills the poker chips) 
TROI: It's Will Riker. That's right. I was thinking of him. 
JEV: Remembering a time when you were with him. 
TROI: Yes, after a poker game. 
JEV: It's a pleasant memory. Stay with it. 
TROI: Now he's hurting me no. 
JEV: You're frightened. 
TROI: I want him to stop. It's not Will. Somebody's taken his place. 
JEV: Someone else is there? Who is it? 
TROI: No! He shouldn't be here. Why is he here? Stop! You're hurting
me. 
JEV: Can you see his face? 
TROI: Yes. 
TARMIN: Imzadi. 
TROI: No! Stop! You're hurting me. 
INAD: Who is it? Who's doing this to you? 
TROI: It's Tarmin. It's your father.

Captain's log, stardate 45433.2. We have set a
course for Starbase four forty, where the Ullians will disembark and
return home.

[Ready room]

JEV: Inad and I have contacted our home planet. If
you want to prosecute my father, the authorities there will support
you. 
PICARD: I'm not sure we have any legal basis for such a prosecution.
Memory invasion is simply not a crime we've ever had to contend with. 
JEV: According to what I've just learned, it's a practice that was
abolished on our world centuries ago. 
PICARD: What could motivate someone like your father to commit such an
act? 
JEV: I don't know. A perverse source of pleasure, perhaps? A way to
exercise control over another? 
PICARD: Your father claims quite strenuously that he is innocent. 
JEV: My father has never been one to admit that he's wrong. But it is
difficult to believe he'd be capable of this. I am told that the
punishment for this crime is quite severe. We are monitoring my
father's telepathic activities. You have my assurance he won't assault
anyone else. I am sorry for this, Captain. 
(Jev leaves) 
PICARD: Picard to Commander Data. 
DATA [OC]: Yes, Captain. 
PICARD: How's your search coming? 
[Bridge]

DATA: We have uncovered several cases, sir, but we
have not yet completed our investigation. 
[Ready room]

PICARD: We'll inform the medical personnel on those
planets that we have discovered the true nature of the comas. I'm sure
they'll appreciate knowing what 
