RIKER [OC] TROI JEV RIKER TROI [OC]
certain turbolift chocolate hair demean amusing want corner approach

[Corridor]

TROI: Jev? 
JEV: I'm sorry. I'm being rude. 
TROI: No, not at all. 
JEV: My father finds it amusing to demean me in public. I reach the
point where I don't want to hear any more. 
TROI: It's not easy having an overbearing parent. Believe me, I know
how you feel. 
JEV: Oh, that's right. You're an empath. 
TROI: Oh, I can't read Ullians, but I do know a certain Betazoid mother
who is a great deal like your father.

[Turbolift]

TROI: Deck eight. 
JEV: Deck sixteen. 
TROI: I've learned to remind myself that my mother and I are two
separate individuals. 
JEV: And have you enjoyed much success with this approach, Counsellor? 
TROI: No. But I do keep reminding myself. 
(they arrive at deck eight) 
TROI: Goodnight. 
JEV: Goodnight, Counsellor. And thank you.

[Troi's quarters]

(Troi is brushing her hair when she gets an image
of falling coins, then - ) 
RIKER [OC]: Have you stopped thinking about us? 
TROI: Hot chocolate. 
(she sees herself lying down on the floor, with Will. She sits on the
corner of her bed to sip her chocolate, and she's back at the end of a
poker game, packing up the chips then dropping them) 
TROI: Imzadi, we can't. Not when we're serving on the same ship. 
RIKER: Have you stopped thinking about us? Just answer that. I can't
stop thinking about you. 
TROI: Will, don't. 
TROI [OC]: Imzadi, we can't. Not when we're serving on the same ship. 
RIKER: Have you stopped thinking about us? 
TROI: We mustn't do this. Will, don't. Will, no! 
(Then suddenly it isn't Riker lying on top of her any more) 
JEV: Imzadi. Have you stopped thinking about us? Just answer that. 
TROI: No! No! No! Don't! 
JEV: I can't stop thinking about you. Imzadi. Have you stopped thinking
about us? 
TROI: No! 
(and the nightmare leaves Troi lying unconscious on the floor) 

Captain's log, stardate 45430.9. Counsellor Troi
has fallen into a deep coma. After a thorough examination, Doctor
Crusher has been unable to find signs of illness or infection.

