TROI LAFORGE PICARD MARTIN DATA MARTIN [OC]
electropathic tone emergency consciousness pattern restricting hair investigate asked

[Corridor]

LAFORGE: I've spent two hours having a cozy chat
with the computer. I've checked everything I can think of. Any possible
agent that might cause that electropathic pattern. 
DATA: I assume from your tone of voice that you were unsuccessful. 
LAFORGE: Didn't find a thing. 
[Sickbay]

LAFORGE: Doctor Crusher's not going to be too happy
with 
(they see her slumped over her desk and run in)

[Crusher's office]

DATA: Emergency medical team to Doctor Crusher's
office immediately.

[Ready room]

LAFORGE: Doctor Crusher had me working on a
shipwide diagnostic. I'd gone to give her the results when I found her.

PICARD: Did your scans provide any insights into these comas? 
LAFORGE: None. I've checked and cross-checked. They're just dead ends. 
DATA: We seem to have eliminated the all known factors that may have
caused the comas, except for the Ullians. 
PICARD: Mister Data, I want you to investigate those eleven planets
that the Ullians visited. See if there were any reports of unexplained
comas. 
DATA: Aye, sir. 
PICARD: In the meantime, we must consider restricting them to their
quarters, as a precautionary measure. 
LAFORGE: If one of them is behind this, will keeping telepaths in their
quarters prevent it from happening again? 
PICARD: What else can we do? Station a guard? Set up a force field? I
don't see that those would be any more effective. 
MARTIN [OC]: Sickbay to Captain Picard. 
PICARD: Picard here. 
MARTIN [OC]: Counsellor Troi has regained consciousness. She's asked
for you, sir. 
PICARD: I'm on my way.

[Sickbay]

TROI: It's like waking up from a nightmare and not
remembering what it was about. 
PICARD: What is the last thing you do remember? 
TROI: My hair. I was brushing my hair. 
PICARD: And then? 
TROI: I don't know. Just waking up here. Why do I feel so frightened?
What happened to me? 
PICARD: We were hoping that you could tell us. 
TROI: How long have I been here? 
MARTIN: Three days. 
TROI: Three days? 
PICARD: You were the first. The next day Commander Riker fell into a
similar coma. Last night, Doctor Crusher. 
TROI: What is going on here? 
PICARD: We're not certain. It may be that there is some unusual effect
produced by the Ullians' telepathic activity. I'm going to talk to
them, and in the meantime, you're to stay here and recuperate. And if
you remember anything at all about what happened, I want you to tell me
immediately.

