RIKER JEV LAFORGE WORF PICARD COMPUTER DAVIS CRUSHER

[Engineering]

RIKER: Out, out! Let's go! 
DAVIS: Keller is still in there. 
JEV: Didn't you hear him? Keller is still in there. 
RIKER: Riker to transporter room three. Prepare to beam Ensign Keller
out of the engine room. 
JEV: Keller is still in there. 
JEV: Keller is still in there. 
DAVIS: You killed her. 
RIKER: Ensign Keller, answer me. 
JEV: You killed her. 
LAFORGE: I've got to get that isolation door down! 
JEV: Keller is still in there. 
RIKER: Bring down the door! 
JEV: You killed her. 
DAVIS: You killed her. 
JEV: You killed her. 
LAFORGE: I need that door down! 
DAVIS: Keller is still in there. 
JEV: You killed her.

[Riker's quarters]

(and Riker collapses) 
[Bridge]

PICARD: Bridge to Commander Riker. Picard to
Commander Riker, answer please. Computer, locate Commander Riker. 
COMPUTER: Commander Riker is in his quarters. 
WORF: On my way, sir.

[Riker's quarters]

(Worf finds Will slumped across his desk) 
Medical log, stardate 45431.7. Commander Riker is
the second officer who has fallen into an unexplained coma. I have
examined the Ullians and ruled out the possibility that they carry a
harmful organism.

[Observation lounge]

CRUSHER: I compared Deanna's brain scan to one that
I took during her last physical. There is a difference. This time
there's a trace of electropathic activity. 
PICARD: And Commander Riker? 
CRUSHER: I found the same pattern. If I didn't know better, I'd say
they both had Iresine syndrome. That's the only medical condition that
would produce that pattern. 
WORF: What is Iresine syndrome? 
CRUSHER: A very rare neurological disorder first diagnosed in the
twenty third century. It's characterised by an identical electropathic
residue. 
PICARD: Why discount the possibility that it's responsible for these
comas? 
CRUSHER: Iresine is always accompanied by a severely decreased
histamine count. Both Will and Deanna showed normal levels.
I've asked Commander La Forge to conduct a shipwide diagnostic to
determine any other agent that might cause the same electropathic
pattern. 
WORF: Commander Riker and Counsellor Troi were in perfect health until
the Ullians arrived. It would be wise to quarantine the aliens. 
PICARD: I believe that it would be premature to take that action,
Mister Worf. There's no real evidence linking these comas with the
Ullians. 
CRUSHER: That's true, but there is something curious. The electropathic
residue I discovered is located in the thalamus. That's the area of the
cerebral cortex that involves memory function.

