TROI JEV TROI [OC] RIKER [OC] RIKER MARTIN PICARD CRUSHER
illness ve morning chocolate hair martin gets fallen change

[Troi's quarters]

(Troi is brushing her hair when she gets an image
of falling coins, then - ) 
RIKER [OC]: Have you stopped thinking about us? 
TROI: Hot chocolate. 
(she sees herself lying down on the floor, with Will. She sits on the
corner of her bed to sip her chocolate, and she's back at the end of a
poker game, packing up the chips then dropping them) 
TROI: Imzadi, we can't. Not when we're serving on the same ship. 
RIKER: Have you stopped thinking about us? Just answer that. I can't
stop thinking about you. 
TROI: Will, don't. 
TROI [OC]: Imzadi, we can't. Not when we're serving on the same ship. 
RIKER: Have you stopped thinking about us? 
TROI: We mustn't do this. Will, don't. Will, no! 
(Then suddenly it isn't Riker lying on top of her any more) 
JEV: Imzadi. Have you stopped thinking about us? Just answer that. 
TROI: No! No! No! Don't! 
JEV: I can't stop thinking about you. Imzadi. Have you stopped thinking
about us? 
TROI: No! 
(and the nightmare leaves Troi lying unconscious on the floor) 

Captain's log, stardate 45430.9. Counsellor Troi
has fallen into a deep coma. After a thorough examination, Doctor
Crusher has been unable to find signs of illness or infection.

[Sickbay]

CRUSHER: Any change, Doctor Martin? 
MARTIN: No. I'm still getting unusual neurotransmitter readings in the
diencephalon, but they might be a result of the coma. 
PICARD: Can you bring her out of it? 
CRUSHER: I've tried standard revival techniques. She doesn't respond.
Until I find out what's caused this, I don't want to try anything more
extreme. 
RIKER: Do we know what she was doing when this happened? 
CRUSHER: No. She was found in her quarters this morning when she didn't
show up for an appointment. She was dressed for bed but the bed hadn't
been slept in. 
PICARD: Who was the last person to speak with her? 
RIKER: She left the dinner last night with one of the Ullians. I'll
talk to him. 
PICARD: Ask if they would consent to an examination, just to be
certain. 
CRUSHER: I'll check the biofilter readings from the Ullian transporter
log. It's possible they could still be carrying a harmful organism. 
[Ten Forward]

RIKER: May I join you? 
JEV: Commander. Of course. Something's wrong? 
RIKER: Counsellor Troi's ill. 
JEV: I'm sorry to hear it 
RIKER: She's more than ill, she's in a coma. Doctor Crusher doesn't
know what's causing it or how to treat her. 
JEV: When did this happen? 
RIKER: Apparently some time last night. That's why I wanted to talk to
you. You may have been the last person to see her. Did you go with her
into her quarters? 
JEV: Are you suggesting that I behaved improperly, Commander? 
RIKER: Not at all. I'm just trying to trace her steps. 
JEV: We talked in a turbolift, briefly. She got out at deck eight. I
did not go with her. 
RIKER: Jev, I'm not accusing you of anything. Did she mention feeling
ill? 
JEV: She seemed fine. She has a wonderful sense of humour. 
RIKER: If you have no objections, Doctor Crusher would like to examine
you and your group. 
JEV: To what end? 
RIKER: She's just trying to eliminate the possibility that one of you
might be carrying an organism that was harmful to Deanna.
I'm not implying that you did anything intentional. I'm just trying to
get to the bottom of the mystery. 
JEV: We have nothing to hide. If you wish to spend time examining us. 
RIKER: Fine. Thank you.

