PICARD [OC] CRUSHER JEV TARMIN WORF PICARD COMPUTER MARTIN INAD KEIKO LAFORGE
function suggested track leaves discovered strain stories board byproduct

[Observation lounge]

CRUSHER: I compared Deanna's brain scan to one that
I took during her last physical. There is a difference. This time
there's a trace of electropathic activity. 
PICARD: And Commander Riker? 
CRUSHER: I found the same pattern. If I didn't know better, I'd say
they both had Iresine syndrome. That's the only medical condition that
would produce that pattern. 
WORF: What is Iresine syndrome? 
CRUSHER: A very rare neurological disorder first diagnosed in the
twenty third century. It's characterised by an identical electropathic
residue. 
PICARD: Why discount the possibility that it's responsible for these
comas? 
CRUSHER: Iresine is always accompanied by a severely decreased
histamine count. Both Will and Deanna showed normal levels.
I've asked Commander La Forge to conduct a shipwide diagnostic to
determine any other agent that might cause the same electropathic
pattern. 
WORF: Commander Riker and Counsellor Troi were in perfect health until
the Ullians arrived. It would be wise to quarantine the aliens. 
PICARD: I believe that it would be premature to take that action,
Mister Worf. There's no real evidence linking these comas with the
Ullians. 
CRUSHER: That's true, but there is something curious. The electropathic
residue I discovered is located in the thalamus. That's the area of the
cerebral cortex that involves memory function.

[Ullian's quarters]

TARMIN: I've been accused of putting people to
sleep with one too many stories, Captain, but this is the first time
it's ever been suggested that I might be the cause of someone's coma. 
PICARD: I mean no disrespect, but we are faced with an alarming
situation 
INAD: Why do you suspect us, Captain? 
PICARD: Suspect is perhaps too strong a word. I'm simply trying to
determine what has caused two of my officers to fall into comas. 
JEV: But you've already examined us. We aren't carrying anything
harmful. 
CRUSHER: In further study of the victims, I detected some abnormal
patterns in the area of the brain that involves memory. 
PICARD: In light of your telepathic abilities, it raises the question. 
INAD: Captain, it is not our wish to obstruct you. What would you like?

CRUSHER: If I could do further examinations tomorrow. Perhaps monitor
you during a memory probe. 
TARMIN: Scrutiny does not frighten us. 
JEV: We will be happy to cooperate, Doctor. 
CRUSHER: Thank you. I'll contact you in the morning.

[Sickbay]

CRUSHER: You're the only person on board to undergo
a memory probe by the Ullians. I'd like to do a neurological work up
and see if I can detect any residual effect. Doctor Martin will monitor
your vital signs while I conduct the scan. 
KEIKO: I'm happy to help. 
CRUSHER: Have you had any unusual symptoms since the probe? Headaches?
Dizziness? 
KEIKO: No, nothing like that. It was a wonderful experience. 
CRUSHER: Electrical activity is normal. CPK levels are normal.
Hippocampus is stable, and the thalamus? The thalamus is normal. There
is no indication at all of the electropathic residual. 
KEIKO: Is that good? 
CRUSHER: Oh, you're fine, Keiko. But I am no closer to solving this
mystery.

[Engineering]

LAFORGE: Computer, locate the electropathic pattern
described in medical database four delta one. 
COMPUTER: Electropathic pattern located. 
LAFORGE: Okay, we're going to track down any possible cause of that
brain pattern. First, what are the medical conditions that might
account for it? 
COMPUTER: Iresine syndrome is a cause of the electropathic pattern. 
LAFORGE: Right. And Doctor Crusher already eliminated that, so how many
non-medical forces or substances might cause the pattern? 
COMPUTER: There are twenty two non-medical agents. 
LAFORGE: Okay. And how many of those are present on the Enterprise? 
COMPUTER: None are present on the Enterprise. 
LAFORGE: Are the ship's sensors calibrated to detect all those agents? 
COMPUTER: All agents are scanned by the sensors. 
LAFORGE: Okay. Let's start with the chemical substances. Name them. 
COMPUTER: Ferrazene, hylanatine, dardilion, chrysimite, and manzene. 
LAFORGE: Ferrazene has a complex molecular structure. It breaks down
into bilenium and tarrisite. Do the sensors scan for those? 
COMPUTER: Ship's sensors scan for both compounds. 
LAFORGE: And are they present on the Enterprise? 
COMPUTER: Bilenium and tarrisite are not present. 
LAFORGE: Do any of the substances break down into by-products that are
not scanned for? 
COMPUTER: Dardilion contains the byproduct nilizene. Sensors do not
routinely scan for that substance. 
LAFORGE: Well, this isn't a routine situation. Scan for the nilizene. 
COMPUTER: There is no nilizene on the Enterprise. 
LAFORGE: How did I know you were going to say that? Okay. Let's move on
to the non-chemical agents.

[Crusher's office]

MARTIN: Anything more I can do for you? 
CRUSHER: No, thanks. I was just doing some reading on the Iresine
syndrome. If a new strain has developed, that might explain the normal
histamine count. 
MARTIN: Any luck? 
CRUSHER: Not so far. 
MARTIN: Okay. I'll see you tomorrow. 
(after Martin leaves, Beverly gets a vision of a younger Picard with
some hair) 
PICARD [OC]: You shouldn't remember him like this. 
(They are visiting a morgue) 
PICARD: You don't have to do this. 
CRUSHER: It's important to me. I have to see him. To see him. To see
him. To see him. 
(on their way to the morgue) 
CRUSHER: It's good of you to come. 
PICARD: It's the least I can do. 
(they enter the morgue) 
PICARD: You shouldn't remember him like this. 
CRUSHER: I have to face the fact that he's gone. 
PICARD: You shouldn't remember him like this 
CRUSHER: It's good of you to come with me. 
PICARD: It's the least I can do. 
JEV: You shouldn't remember him like this. 
PICARD: It's the least I can do 
(Picard lifts the sheet to reveal dead Jack Crusher, who then opens his
eyes and becomes Jev. Picard is now Jev. Beverly screams)

