RIKER CRUSHER JEV
don ve consciousness apparently carrying pretty sense organism spend

[Ten Forward]

RIKER: May I join you? 
JEV: Commander. Of course. Something's wrong? 
RIKER: Counsellor Troi's ill. 
JEV: I'm sorry to hear it 
RIKER: She's more than ill, she's in a coma. Doctor Crusher doesn't
know what's causing it or how to treat her. 
JEV: When did this happen? 
RIKER: Apparently some time last night. That's why I wanted to talk to
you. You may have been the last person to see her. Did you go with her
into her quarters? 
JEV: Are you suggesting that I behaved improperly, Commander? 
RIKER: Not at all. I'm just trying to trace her steps. 
JEV: We talked in a turbolift, briefly. She got out at deck eight. I
did not go with her. 
RIKER: Jev, I'm not accusing you of anything. Did she mention feeling
ill? 
JEV: She seemed fine. She has a wonderful sense of humour. 
RIKER: If you have no objections, Doctor Crusher would like to examine
you and your group. 
JEV: To what end? 
RIKER: She's just trying to eliminate the possibility that one of you
might be carrying an organism that was harmful to Deanna.
I'm not implying that you did anything intentional. I'm just trying to
get to the bottom of the mystery. 
JEV: We have nothing to hide. If you wish to spend time examining us. 
RIKER: Fine. Thank you.

[Sickbay]

RIKER: Deanna, I don't know if you can hear me.
I've heard doctors say that even when someone's in a coma, they may be
able to hear when people talk to them. That it might help stimulate the
brain, speed the healing. In fact, I think you did that for me once,
when I was in pretty bad shape. I just thought it might help to hear a
friendly voice, even if you don't know you're hearing it. We've been
busy mapping the sector. It's been pretty routine. The most unusual
thing we've seen is a binary star system. Let's see, what else? I
finished the personnel review that we were working on. You can check it
out when you wake up. I miss you. Please don't stay away too long. 
CRUSHER: Will? Will, I promise I'll let you know the minute that she
regains consciousness. 
RIKER: I know. 
CRUSHER: There's nothing you can do here. You'll wear yourself out. 
RIKER: Right.
CRUSHER: It's late. Go to bed. That's an order.

[Riker's quarters]

(Riker is using a PADD when suddenly he is dreaming
about being back in - )

