TROI JEV LAFORGE PICARD INAD DATA TARMIN

[Ullian's quarters]

TARMIN: What are you suggesting, Captain? 
PICARD: That you voluntarily confine yourself to your quarters, at
least until we have
unraveled this mystery. 
TARMIN: We're to be prisoners? 
JEV: Father. 
PICARD: No, please don't look on it like that. We have done everything
we can to explain these comas. We have performed physical examinations,
and neurological scans. We have conducted a ship-wide diagnostic,
looking for viruses, parasites, infestations. We have investigated
every possible cause we can imagine. We have found nothing. Nothing to
explain these comas. The only variable that we have not been able to
eliminate is your presence here on this ship. Now, in the light of our
actions, we would ask you to understand my request and to agree to it. 
JEV: Captain, our history indicates that we do not adversely affect the
people we contact. 
PICARD: I know that. 
JEV: Then are you implying an intentional assault? 
PICARD: I'm simply considering all possibilities. 
JEV: Surely you would give us the chance to prove that we are innocent?

PICARD: If that's possible, of course. 
JEV: Then I would propose doing a memory probe of Counsellor Troi. You
have said that she doesn't remember anything that happened before she
lapsed into unconsciousness. I could retrieve that memory There is a
possibility that it could explain the coma and prove our innocence. 
PICARD: I'm sorry. I couldn't possibly subject Counsellor Troi to a
potentially dangerous procedure. 
TARMIN: And I refuse to be a party to any of these proceedings. 
(Tarmin leaves) 
INAD: Jev is making a reasonable request, Captain. If we're to be
accused, surely we're entitled to a defence? Tarmin did a memory probe
on another of your crew. Has she suffered any ill effects? 
PICARD: No. 
INAD: And neither will Counsellor Troi. Please, you may have as many
people here as you need to guarantee her safety, but give us this
chance to vindicate ourselves. 
PICARD: I will discuss the matter with Counsellor Troi.

[Bridge]

(at the aft science stations) 
LAFORGE: Well, that's it for Melina Two. No unexplained comas during
the time the Ullians were working there. 
DATA: We have yet to receive transmissions from the two planets of the
Nel system. Perhaps they will show different results. 
LAFORGE: Maybe. Or maybe we're not checking for the right thing. 
DATA: Please clarify. 
LAFORGE: We haven't look into the comas that were explained. 
DATA: Why would we do that? 
LAFORGE: Well, remember what Doctor Crusher said right after Counsellor
Troi became unconscious? That it looked exactly like Iresine syndrome
except for the histamine count? 
DATA: Yes. 
LAFORGE: Maybe not every medical facility is as careful as Doctor
Crusher. Maybe it's easier to just make a quick diagnosis rather than
to keep hunting for the real cause. 
DATA: You are searching for instances of Iresine syndrome? 
LAFORGE: Right, and correlating them with visits by the Ullians. And
there we are. 
DATA: Two cases of Iresine syndrome on Hurada Three, at exactly the
time Tarmin and his group was there. 
LAFORGE: Let's check the other planets. I think we may have something
here.

[Troi's quarters]

(Inad is also present) 
PICARD: Counsellor, I want to reiterate, if you have any doubts
whatsoever about this procedure, you don't have to go through with it. 
TROI: I want to do it, Captain. Something awful happened to me and I
don't even know what it was. 
PICARD: Very well. 
JEV: Counsellor, what's the last thing you remember the other night? 
TROI: Brushing my hair. 
JEV: Would you get your hairbrush? 
JEV: Tell me about brushing your hair. Do you do it every night? 
TROI: Yes, when I'm ready for bed. 
JEV: What is it? 
TROI: Someone touching my hair. 
JEV: Someone's with you in the room? 
TROI: No. No, I'm alone. There's no one there. 
JEV: Go on. 
TROI: I get some hot chocolate. 
JEV: Something's happening. 
TROI: I'm alone in my quarters. I'm remembering something from a few
years ago. 
JEV: Go back into that memory. You said someone was touching your hair?

TROI: Yes. And. 
(she spills the poker chips) 
TROI: It's Will Riker. That's right. I was thinking of him. 
JEV: Remembering a time when you were with him. 
TROI: Yes, after a poker game. 
JEV: It's a pleasant memory. Stay with it. 
TROI: Now he's hurting me no. 
JEV: You're frightened. 
TROI: I want him to stop. It's not Will. Somebody's taken his place. 
JEV: Someone else is there? Who is it? 
TROI: No! He shouldn't be here. Why is he here? Stop! You're hurting
me. 
JEV: Can you see his face? 
TROI: Yes. 
TARMIN: Imzadi. 
TROI: No! Stop! You're hurting me. 
INAD: Who is it? Who's doing this to you? 
TROI: It's Tarmin. It's your father.

Captain's log, stardate 45433.2. We have set a
course for Starbase four forty, where the Ullians will disembark and
return home.

[Ready room]

JEV: Inad and I have contacted our home planet. If
you want to prosecute my father, the authorities there will support
you. 
PICARD: I'm not sure we have any legal basis for such a prosecution.
Memory invasion is simply not a crime we've ever had to contend with. 
JEV: According to what I've just learned, it's a practice that was
abolished on our world centuries ago. 
PICARD: What could motivate someone like your father to commit such an
act? 
JEV: I don't know. A perverse source of pleasure, perhaps? A way to
exercise control over another? 
PICARD: Your father claims quite strenuously that he is innocent. 
JEV: My father has never been one to admit that he's wrong. But it is
difficult to believe he'd be capable of this. I am told that the
punishment for this crime is quite severe. We are monitoring my
father's telepathic activities. You have my assurance he won't assault
anyone else. I am sorry for this, Captain. 
(Jev leaves) 
PICARD: Picard to Commander Data. 
DATA [OC]: Yes, Captain. 
PICARD: How's your search coming? 
[Bridge]

DATA: We have uncovered several cases, sir, but we
have not yet completed our investigation. 
