TROI JEV TARMIN WORF PICARD RIKER INAD CRUSHER DATA LAFORGE
ve influence spent explore afternoon corridor world data thanks

[Dining room]

JEV: This library of ours has been in the planning
stages for years. A collection of the retrieved memories of races from
many different star systems. 
TARMIN: What my son means to say is, we think of ourselves as
archaeologists of the mind. We believe that the history of a
world is contained in the personal experience of its people. 
PICARD: Rather like the ancient oral historians on Earth. 
TARMIN: Exactly. The library we propose will be a vast storehouse of
these individual memories. 
RIKER: That sounds like quite a project. How long will it take to
finish your studies on Kaldra? 
INAD: (a silver-haired woman) Many months. We've been working for
years, and we've surveyed only eleven planets in eight star systems. 
JEV: But it's our way of life. We wouldn't want to do anything else. 
CRUSHER: Captain, Mister Tarmin gave us a demonstration of his
abilities this afternoon. It's fascinating. Perhaps you would like to
resurrect some memories. 
TARMIN: I'd be happy to probe your recollections, Captain. Most people
find it an enjoyable experience. 
PICARD: I'm sure. However, I don't think I would make a particularly
good subject. 
CRUSHER: I'm sure you'd be ideal, and you must have some intriguing
memories. 
TARMIN: We won't be on your ship for long. This may be your last
chance. 
PICARD: Yes. Well. 
INAD: Tarmin, we mustn't influence people. We must let them come to us
willingly. 
TARMIN: I have found over the years there are many who want the
experience of memory retrieval, but who lack some encouragement in
order to come forward. 
TARMIN: You, Mister Worf? I would love to explore Klingon memories. 
WORF: Klingons do not allow themselves to be probed. 
TARMIN: But there is nothing to fear. 
JEV: Father. 
WORF: I am not fearful. 
TARMIN: Commander La Forge, you? 
LAFORGE: I don't think so. Thanks anyway. 
TARMIN: I have rarely encountered such squeamish people. Doctor
Crusher? Commander Riker? 
TROI: Mister Tarmin, are all Ullians able to read memories? 
TARMIN: Oh, no, my dear. The technique requires special training. It is
a serious commitment. 
INAD: It takes years of study. Tarmin is the most proficient of our
group. 
TARMIN: Once Jev spent two days with a contingent of elderly Gentons.
He couldn't get anything from them. I spent only one hour with them and
retrieved a fragment from the Gentonian trade wars. 
JEV: Excuse me. 
(Jev exits hurriedly) 
INAD: Exactly how long will it be before we reach Kaldra, Captain? 
PICARD: Mister Data? 
DATA: Four days, eleven hours.

[Corridor]

TROI: Jev? 
JEV: I'm sorry. I'm being rude. 
TROI: No, not at all. 
JEV: My father finds it amusing to demean me in public. I reach the
point where I don't want to hear any more. 
TROI: It's not easy having an overbearing parent. Believe me, I know
how you feel. 
JEV: Oh, that's right. You're an empath. 
TROI: Oh, I can't read Ullians, but I do know a certain Betazoid mother
who is a great deal like your father.

