TROI JEV LAFORGE PICARD MARTIN INAD DATA TARMIN

[Crusher's office]

DATA: Emergency medical team to Doctor Crusher's
office immediately.

[Ready room]

LAFORGE: Doctor Crusher had me working on a
shipwide diagnostic. I'd gone to give her the results when I found her.

PICARD: Did your scans provide any insights into these comas? 
LAFORGE: None. I've checked and cross-checked. They're just dead ends. 
DATA: We seem to have eliminated the all known factors that may have
caused the comas, except for the Ullians. 
PICARD: Mister Data, I want you to investigate those eleven planets
that the Ullians visited. See if there were any reports of unexplained
comas. 
DATA: Aye, sir. 
PICARD: In the meantime, we must consider restricting them to their
quarters, as a precautionary measure. 
LAFORGE: If one of them is behind this, will keeping telepaths in their
quarters prevent it from happening again? 
PICARD: What else can we do? Station a guard? Set up a force field? I
don't see that those would be any more effective. 
MARTIN [OC]: Sickbay to Captain Picard. 
PICARD: Picard here. 
MARTIN [OC]: Counsellor Troi has regained consciousness. She's asked
for you, sir. 
PICARD: I'm on my way.

[Sickbay]

TROI: It's like waking up from a nightmare and not
remembering what it was about. 
PICARD: What is the last thing you do remember? 
TROI: My hair. I was brushing my hair. 
PICARD: And then? 
TROI: I don't know. Just waking up here. Why do I feel so frightened?
What happened to me? 
PICARD: We were hoping that you could tell us. 
TROI: How long have I been here? 
MARTIN: Three days. 
TROI: Three days? 
PICARD: You were the first. The next day Commander Riker fell into a
similar coma. Last night, Doctor Crusher. 
TROI: What is going on here? 
PICARD: We're not certain. It may be that there is some unusual effect
produced by the Ullians' telepathic activity. I'm going to talk to
them, and in the meantime, you're to stay here and recuperate. And if
you remember anything at all about what happened, I want you to tell me
immediately.

[Ullian's quarters]

TARMIN: What are you suggesting, Captain? 
PICARD: That you voluntarily confine yourself to your quarters, at
least until we have
unraveled this mystery. 
TARMIN: We're to be prisoners? 
JEV: Father. 
PICARD: No, please don't look on it like that. We have done everything
we can to explain these comas. We have performed physical examinations,
and neurological scans. We have conducted a ship-wide diagnostic,
looking for viruses, parasites, infestations. We have investigated
every possible cause we can imagine. We have found nothing. Nothing to
explain these comas. The only variable that we have not been able to
eliminate is your presence here on this ship. Now, in the light of our
actions, we would ask you to understand my request and to agree to it. 
JEV: Captain, our history indicates that we do not adversely affect the
people we contact. 
PICARD: I know that. 
JEV: Then are you implying an intentional assault? 
PICARD: I'm simply considering all possibilities. 
JEV: Surely you would give us the chance to prove that we are innocent?

PICARD: If that's possible, of course. 
JEV: Then I would propose doing a memory probe of Counsellor Troi. You
have said that she doesn't remember anything that happened before she
lapsed into unconsciousness. I could retrieve that memory There is a
possibility that it could explain the coma and prove our innocence. 
PICARD: I'm sorry. I couldn't possibly subject Counsellor Troi to a
potentially dangerous procedure. 
TARMIN: And I refuse to be a party to any of these proceedings. 
(Tarmin leaves) 
INAD: Jev is making a reasonable request, Captain. If we're to be
accused, surely we're entitled to a defence? Tarmin did a memory probe
on another of your crew. Has she suffered any ill effects? 
PICARD: No. 
INAD: And neither will Counsellor Troi. Please, you may have as many
people here as you need to guarantee her safety, but give us this
chance to vindicate ourselves. 
PICARD: I will discuss the matter with Counsellor Troi.

[Bridge]

(at the aft science stations) 
LAFORGE: Well, that's it for Melina Two. No unexplained comas during
the time the Ullians were working there. 
DATA: We have yet to receive transmissions from the two planets of the
Nel system. Perhaps they will show different results. 
LAFORGE: Maybe. Or maybe we're not checking for the right thing. 
DATA: Please clarify. 
LAFORGE: We haven't look into the comas that were explained. 
DATA: Why would we do that? 
LAFORGE: Well, remember what Doctor Crusher said right after Counsellor
Troi became unconscious? That it looked exactly like Iresine syndrome
except for the histamine count? 
DATA: Yes. 
LAFORGE: Maybe not every medical facility is as careful as Doctor
Crusher. Maybe it's easier to just make a quick diagnosis rather than
to keep hunting for the real cause. 
DATA: You are searching for instances of Iresine syndrome? 
LAFORGE: Right, and correlating them with visits by the Ullians. And
there we are. 
DATA: Two cases of Iresine syndrome on Hurada Three, at exactly the
time Tarmin and his group was there. 
LAFORGE: Let's check the other planets. I think we may have something
here.

