TROI LAFORGE CONOR HANNAH PICARD MARTIN

[Courtyard]

(they are discussing it round a small table) 
LAFORGE: We'd need Hannah on the ship. 
MARTIN: No. 
HANNAH: With my theories and their equipment, we might be able to alter
the fragment's path. It's our only chance to avoid evacuation. 
CONOR: No one had ever come here and no one had ever left, until today.
This is a date to note in our history books. 
MARTIN: This is in direct violation of the intentions of our founders,
Aaron. 
CONOR: I don't think they intended us to die, Martin. 
MARTIN: Her absence will create an additional imbalance. 
CONOR: Temporarily. The circumstances require us to be flexible. 
MARTIN: We have no idea how molecular transport will affect her DNA. 
LAFORGE: It won't affect her DNA at all. There's been over a century of
evidence to prove that. 
CONOR: You can go, Hannah. 
TROI: May I return later? 
CONOR: I look forward to it. 
LAFORGE: Enterprise, three to beam up. Energise.

Captain's log, supplemental. Commander La Forge and
Hannah Bates have spent three days trying to find a way to adjust the
path of the core fragment. If they do not succeed in the next forty
eight hours, we will need to begin evacuation.

[Ready room]

TROI: I believe some will choose to risk death
rather than leave, Captain. 
PICARD: You've spent a good deal of time on the surface. How do you
suggest we change their minds? 
TROI: I'm not sure we can. It would mean abandoning their fundamental
way of life. 
PICARD: They've managed to turn a dubious scientific endeavour into
dogma. 
TROI: You don't approve of genetic engineering. 
PICARD: It was a bad idea whose time is long past. 
TROI: They seem to have made it succeed. 
PICARD: They've given away their humanity with this genetic
manipulation. Many of the qualities that they breed out, the
uncertainty, the self-discovery, the unknown, those are many of the
qualities that make life worth living. Well, at least to me.
I wouldn't want to live knowing that my future was written, that my
boundaries had been already set, would you? 
TROI: I've asked myself that question a lot during the past few days. I
don't know. I doubt it. Nevertheless, it's what they believe in, and it
won't be an easy matter to talk them into leaving. 
PICARD: This leader of theirs, Conor, he seems to be a reasonable man. 
TROI: I find him very reasonable. Open to suggestions, thoughtful,
quite disarming. The perfect administrator. 
PICARD: I'm sure. Will he leave when he sees there's no other choice? 
TROI: I don't know. I hope so. 
PICARD: You admire him. 
TROI: Yes. 
PICARD: Then help him to see the reality of what may happen to his
colony. If he makes the right decision, if he's as good a leader as
he's designed to be, then perhaps the others will follow.

