HANNAH TROI LAFORGE CONOR
spotted generate accidental meeting damage throw new normally tell

[Shrubbery]

TROI: You're sure my being here is not going to be
disruptive? 
CONOR: Disruptive? You mean, what Martin was saying. 
TROI: Well, I certainly wouldn't wish to throw off your entire balance.

CONOR: Too late. The damage is done. 
TROI: Seriously. 
CONOR: I sometimes think that strict interpreters like Martin have
forgotten we're still human. We'll adjust, accommodate. 
TROI: There must be other unexpected events you have to deal with. An
untimely death, an accident. 
CONOR: Our geneticists are able to screen out any congenital health
risks before conception. Our population is diverse enough to maintain a
genetic balance in the event of accidental death. But very little that
is unexpected occurs here. Am I making this sound incredibly dull? 
TROI: Not at all. 
CONOR: I'll tell you the truth, but I'll deny it if you tell Martin.
I've found today exhilarating. Meeting you, meeting new people, with
new ideas. 
TROI: I feel the same about being here. I'm something of a student of
human nature, and I find this all fascinating. 
CONOR: A student of human nature? 
TROI: I'm the ship's Counsellor. 
CONOR: Ah, I'm afraid you wouldn't find much work here, Counsellor. 
TROI: I'd book my next vacation at your hotel, if you had one. 
CONOR: Well in that case, I shall have to have them build one.

[Laboratory]

HANNAH: The biosphere's superstructure will never
withstand the tectonic shocks. The environment would be compromised. 
LAFORGE: That's how I see it. 
HANNAH: Your ship. What kind of energy output is it capable of
generating? 
LAFORGE: We have a matter-antimatter warp reaction system, the most
powerful in the Starfleet. Normally, it kicks plasma up into the
terawatt range. Why? 
HANNAH: Well, either we're going to have to move or that fragment is. 
LAFORGE: We can move a small moon or an asteroid, but a stellar core
fragment? That's much too massive for our tractor beam. 
(she calls up a diagram on a screen) 
LAFORGE: What's that? 
HANNAH: A wild idea, purely theoretical. 
LAFORGE: A multiphase tractor beam? 
HANNAH: When we first spotted the fragment approaching, I came up with
the idea, but we can't generate the kind of energy we would need. You
can.

