RIKER LAFORGE WORF PICARD CONOR [on viewscreen] DATA
bridge used don ve century didn commander band stay

[Bridge]

RIKER: We've got a problem. Our core fragment is
going to pass by Moab Four in six days. 
PICARD: Isn't that exactly what we anticipated? 
RIKER: We didn't anticipate that somebody would be living there. 
DATA: An artificial environment has been constructed on the southern
continent, sir. 
PICARD: Have you definitely established that there's someone's inside
it? 
DATA: Yes, Captain. Sensors are reading human life forms. 
PICARD: Human? 
RIKER: Are they responding to our hails, Mister Worf? 
WORF: Negative, sir. 
PICARD: Any starships ever reported missing in this sector, Mister
Data? 
DATA: No, sir. 
RIKER: How the hell did they find themselves on a deserted planet? 
LAFORGE: I'm pretty sure they know we're here. 
PICARD: Mister La Forge? 
LAFORGE: Our sensors are picking up deep EM readings. Looks like wave
patterns from an obsolete subspace relay. 
RIKER: Which would suggest they also have the ability to communicate
with us. 
PICARD: Mister Worf, open the lower band frequencies most commonly used
in the last century. 
WORF: Channel open. 
PICARD: This is Captain Jean-Luc Picard of the Federation Starship
Enterprise. It is urgent that you respond. 
WORF: Sir, defensive shield around the structure is increasing in
strength. 
RIKER: Not exactly a welcome mat. 
PICARD: We mean you no harm. We must warn you that your planet is about
to experience massive seismic disruptions due to an approaching stellar
core fragment. No structure will be able to withstand them. 
WORF: They are responding. 
PICARD: On screen. 
CONOR [on viewscreen]: (a thirty-something man) Enterprise, I am Aaron
Conor. 
PICARD: Mister Conor, we were unaware that there were human colonies in
this system. 
CONOR [on viewscreen]: I don't want to be rude, Captain, but we don't
wish to interact with outsiders. I'm only responding because of your
warning. 
PICARD: The fragment will have serious effects on your planet within
six days. 
CONOR [on viewscreen]: Yes, I know. We have been tracking it. But our
biosphere has been constructed to withstand quakes of eight point seven
on the Richter Scale. 
RIKER: Mister Data? 
DATA: The fragment has a density of one hundred billion kilograms per
cubic centimetre. As a result, when it passes Moab Four, it will cause
tectonic shifts well beyond eight point seven on the Richter Scale. 
PICARD: I'm afraid we're going to have to evacuate your people. 
CONOR [on viewscreen]: Evacuate? That is not possible. There must be an
alternative. 
PICARD: Well, we will gladly explore the possibility of it with you,
Mister Conor. Would you like to come aboard to discuss it? 
CONOR [on viewscreen]: Our environment is sealed. No one can get in or
out. 
PICARD: We are capable of matter-energy transport. 
CONOR [on viewscreen]: Matter-energy? 
PICARD: We can take you directly through the structure. 
CONOR [on viewscreen]: Really? That's quite remarkable. 
PICARD: May we arrange for your transport? 
CONOR [on viewscreen]: No, I must stay here. But under the
circumstances, I will permit a small delegation from your ship inside
the biosphere. If only to see this matter-energy transportation you
speak of. 
PICARD: Very good. Commander Riker and an away team will join you
shortly. Picard out. 
