RIKER LAFORGE CONOR HANNAH PICARD WORF MARTIN DATA

[Engineering]

HANNAH: One point one eight. 
[Bridge]

PICARD: Now, Mister La Forge. 
[Engineering]

LAFORGE: Yes, sir. Shutting down all tractor
emissions. Transferring power back to life support. 
HANNAH: One point two. We've got it. 
[Bridge]

WORF: Life support normal on all decks. 
PICARD: Mister Data? 
DATA: The fragment's course has been altered by one point two one
degrees, sir. 
PICARD: Hail the colony. 
CONOR [on viewscreen]: Yes, Captain. 
PICARD: Success, Mister Conor. With the upgrades to your biosphere, the
core fragment should no longer be a danger. 
CONOR [on viewscreen]: I cannot adequately express my appreciation to
your crew. Is Hannah able to hear me?

[Engineering]

HANNAH: Yes, yes. Go ahead, Aaron. 
CONOR [on monitor]: This is an historic achievement, Hannah. You've
done a wonderful thing for our people. 
HANNAH: Thank you. 
CONOR [on monitor]: We look forward to honouring you appropriately when
you return. Thank you again, Captain. Conor out.

Captain's log, supplemental. The stellar core
fragment has passed safely out of the Moab system. The colony was
shaken by powerful temblors, but fortunately there were no injuries and
only minor damage was reported.

[Courtyard]

RIKER: Energise. 
(the original five crew are beamed away) 
RIKER: That should do it. All members of the Enterprise crew are
accounted for, Mister Conor. 
CONOR: They've been invaluable, Commander. Thank you again. 
RIKER: If there's nothing else, we'll be on our way. 
CONOR: Would you tell Deanna Troi for me that I'm sorry I didn't have
the opportunity to say goodbye personally? 
RIKER: I'm sure she'll feel the same way. 
(a klaxon sounds) 
CONOR: A breach in the biosphere. Get Hannah Bates.

[Biosphere wall]

HANNAH: Apparently, the refortification wasn't
adequate. There's definite structural damage. It appears that the
tectonic shifts created a breach. 
MARTIN: Can it be repaired? 
HANNAH: I don't know. I'll have to run a diagnostic in the lab. Unless
we seal it and fast we may have to evacuate. 
CONOR: How long do we have, Hannah? 
HANNAH: Based on the level of toxicity I'm reading, it may be only a
matter of hours. 
LAFORGE: Mind if I give her a hand, Commander? 
RIKER: By all means. 
[Laboratory]

HANNAH: Isn't it amazing after all we went through?

LAFORGE: Yeah. Amazing. 
HANNAH: Looks bad. It's cracked well beneath the surface. 
LAFORGE: Why are you doing this? 
HANNAH: What do you mean? 
LAFORGE: There's no breach. 
HANNAH: What are you talking about. Look at it, it's right here. I
measured the toxic leak. You saw me. 
LAFORGE: Hannah, my visor's positronic scan would have detected the
leak. Its molecular pattern enhancer would have picked up even the
smallest crack. 
HANNAH: The damn thing doesn't miss much, does it. Fine. I'll tell them
the truth. Will that make you happy? 
LAFORGE: Why are you doing this? 
HANNAH: I was born to be one of the best scientific minds of my
generation, and in the past five days I have encountered technology
that I have barely imagined. And I've got to ask myself, If we're so
brilliant how come we didn't invent any of these things? 
LAFORGE: Well, maybe necessity really is the mother of invention. You
never really look for something until you need it. 
HANNAH: But all my needs have been anticipated and planned for before
I'm even born. All of us in this colony have been living in the dark
ages. It's like we're victims of a two hundred year old joke. Until you
came, we could only see to the wall of our biosphere. Suddenly our eyes
have been opened to the infinite possibilities. 
