HANNAH TROI LAFORGE CONOR MARTIN

[Laboratory]

HANNAH: The biosphere's superstructure will never
withstand the tectonic shocks. The environment would be compromised. 
LAFORGE: That's how I see it. 
HANNAH: Your ship. What kind of energy output is it capable of
generating? 
LAFORGE: We have a matter-antimatter warp reaction system, the most
powerful in the Starfleet. Normally, it kicks plasma up into the
terawatt range. Why? 
HANNAH: Well, either we're going to have to move or that fragment is. 
LAFORGE: We can move a small moon or an asteroid, but a stellar core
fragment? That's much too massive for our tractor beam. 
(she calls up a diagram on a screen) 
LAFORGE: What's that? 
HANNAH: A wild idea, purely theoretical. 
LAFORGE: A multiphase tractor beam? 
HANNAH: When we first spotted the fragment approaching, I came up with
the idea, but we can't generate the kind of energy we would need. You
can.

[Courtyard]

(they are discussing it round a small table) 
LAFORGE: We'd need Hannah on the ship. 
MARTIN: No. 
HANNAH: With my theories and their equipment, we might be able to alter
the fragment's path. It's our only chance to avoid evacuation. 
CONOR: No one had ever come here and no one had ever left, until today.
This is a date to note in our history books. 
MARTIN: This is in direct violation of the intentions of our founders,
Aaron. 
CONOR: I don't think they intended us to die, Martin. 
MARTIN: Her absence will create an additional imbalance. 
CONOR: Temporarily. The circumstances require us to be flexible. 
MARTIN: We have no idea how molecular transport will affect her DNA. 
LAFORGE: It won't affect her DNA at all. There's been over a century of
evidence to prove that. 
CONOR: You can go, Hannah. 
TROI: May I return later? 
CONOR: I look forward to it. 
LAFORGE: Enterprise, three to beam up. Energise.

Captain's log, supplemental. Commander La Forge and
Hannah Bates have spent three days trying to find a way to adjust the
path of the core fragment. If they do not succeed in the next forty
eight hours, we will need to begin evacuation.

