TROI LAFORGE CONOR HANNAH PICARD RIKER CONOR + TROI
king divide lead dumpty integrity maintain incredibly mister round

[Biosphere wall]

(a transparent divide) 
TROI: It's hard to believe. So much loveliness here, just a few metres
away from such desolation. 
CONOR: It's hard to believe we're about to lose it. 
TROI: This must sound incredibly simplistic but, can't you re-engineer
all this on another planet? 
CONOR: A nursery rhyme my mother used to read to me has been running
round and round my mind since this all began. 
TROI: A nursery rhyme? 
CONOR: Humpty Dumpty sat on a wall. Humpty Dumpty had a great fall. 
CONOR + TROI: All the King's horses and all the King's Men, couldn't
put Humpty together again. 
CONOR: Why do we tell our children such ghastly stories? 
TROI: Perhaps to prepare them for times like these. 
CONOR: We are every bit as fragile as an egg and as impossible to
reconstruct. We are integrated and refined to such a degree that any
fundamental change would lead to chaos. 
TROI: I'm so sorry, Aaron. I wish I could do something to help. 
CONOR: You have helped. You've been wonderful these past few days.
You've been my Counsellor. 
TROI: No, a Counsellor has to maintain a discreet distance. I'd rather
think of us as friends. 
CONOR: Friends? That just won't do either. 
(He kisses her) 
CONOR: Will it? 
TROI: Aaron. 
CONOR: I must confess, a part of me knows that if I transport through
these walls, you'll be on the other side. 
(He kisses her again) 
TROI: This is wrong. 
CONOR: Terribly wrong. 
(but they do it anyway)

[Engineering]

LAFORGE: In order to move the core fragment to a
safe trajectory, we needed our tractor beam to be able to handle high
power pulses. 
HANNAH: And we needed a much more efficient emitter to do that. 
LAFORGE: About four times more efficient. 
HANNAH: And we couldn't get anywhere near that without overloading the
emitter arrays. 
LAFORGE: So, we added a little visor technology to the process and we
were able to boost the effective force and, at the same time, lower the
power conduit stress levels. 
PICARD: What's the increase in efficiency? 
LAFORGE: Up to almost three hundred percent. 
RIKER: That's not enough. 
HANNAH: That's true. We won't be able to move the fragment as far as
we'd like to, but 
LAFORGE: But if we also fortify the biosphere's structural integrity at
the same time 
HANNAH: With some of the shield improvements I've discovered here, it
could work. 
LAFORGE: Of course, we'll have to lend them some of our engineering
support crews. 
PICARD: Advise Mister Conor, Number One, and brief the appropriate
officers. Prepare them for transport as soon as Mister Conor approves. 
RIKER: Yes, sir. 
