RIKER CONOR WORF HANNAH PICARD TROI MARTIN CRUSHER DATA LAFORGE

[Bridge]

WORF: Life support normal on all decks. 
PICARD: Mister Data? 
DATA: The fragment's course has been altered by one point two one
degrees, sir. 
PICARD: Hail the colony. 
CONOR [on viewscreen]: Yes, Captain. 
PICARD: Success, Mister Conor. With the upgrades to your biosphere, the
core fragment should no longer be a danger. 
CONOR [on viewscreen]: I cannot adequately express my appreciation to
your crew. Is Hannah able to hear me?

[Engineering]

HANNAH: Yes, yes. Go ahead, Aaron. 
CONOR [on monitor]: This is an historic achievement, Hannah. You've
done a wonderful thing for our people. 
HANNAH: Thank you. 
CONOR [on monitor]: We look forward to honouring you appropriately when
you return. Thank you again, Captain. Conor out.

Captain's log, supplemental. The stellar core
fragment has passed safely out of the Moab system. The colony was
shaken by powerful temblors, but fortunately there were no injuries and
only minor damage was reported.

[Courtyard]

RIKER: Energise. 
(the original five crew are beamed away) 
RIKER: That should do it. All members of the Enterprise crew are
accounted for, Mister Conor. 
CONOR: They've been invaluable, Commander. Thank you again. 
RIKER: If there's nothing else, we'll be on our way. 
CONOR: Would you tell Deanna Troi for me that I'm sorry I didn't have
the opportunity to say goodbye personally? 
RIKER: I'm sure she'll feel the same way. 
(a klaxon sounds) 
CONOR: A breach in the biosphere. Get Hannah Bates.

[Biosphere wall]

HANNAH: Apparently, the refortification wasn't
adequate. There's definite structural damage. It appears that the
tectonic shifts created a breach. 
MARTIN: Can it be repaired? 
HANNAH: I don't know. I'll have to run a diagnostic in the lab. Unless
we seal it and fast we may have to evacuate. 
CONOR: How long do we have, Hannah? 
HANNAH: Based on the level of toxicity I'm reading, it may be only a
matter of hours. 
LAFORGE: Mind if I give her a hand, Commander? 
RIKER: By all means. 
[Laboratory]

HANNAH: Isn't it amazing after all we went through?

LAFORGE: Yeah. Amazing. 
HANNAH: Looks bad. It's cracked well beneath the surface. 
LAFORGE: Why are you doing this? 
HANNAH: What do you mean? 
LAFORGE: There's no breach. 
HANNAH: What are you talking about. Look at it, it's right here. I
measured the toxic leak. You saw me. 
LAFORGE: Hannah, my visor's positronic scan would have detected the
leak. Its molecular pattern enhancer would have picked up even the
smallest crack. 
HANNAH: The damn thing doesn't miss much, does it. Fine. I'll tell them
the truth. Will that make you happy? 
LAFORGE: Why are you doing this? 
HANNAH: I was born to be one of the best scientific minds of my
generation, and in the past five days I have encountered technology
that I have barely imagined. And I've got to ask myself, If we're so
brilliant how come we didn't invent any of these things? 
LAFORGE: Well, maybe necessity really is the mother of invention. You
never really look for something until you need it. 
HANNAH: But all my needs have been anticipated and planned for before
I'm even born. All of us in this colony have been living in the dark
ages. It's like we're victims of a two hundred year old joke. Until you
came, we could only see to the wall of our biosphere. Suddenly our eyes
have been opened to the infinite possibilities. 
[Observation lounge]

PICARD: Asylum? 
LAFORGE: She wants to leave the colony. 
RIKER: She may not be the only one. The science teams that went down to
the surface fielded a lot of questions from colonists who were more
than curious about what's outside their world. 
WORF: Why shouldn't we grant them asylum? 
TROI: We can't do that. 
LAFORGE: We have to do that. 
TROI: Do you understand what it would do to the colony? 
LAFORGE: I understand these are human beings, Counsellor, with free
will. If she wants to leave, she has every right to. 
RIKER: And what happens to the colony if she does? If others join her? 
CRUSHER: The society is genetically integrated. Suddenly there would be
gaps, missing pieces. 
TROI: It would destroy them. 
CRUSHER: There must be something we can do to help. 
PICARD: We may have done too much to help them already, Doctor. 
WORF: We saved them from destruction. 
PICARD: Did we? Counsellor, I think it's time you took me to meet
Mister Conor.

[Turbolift]

PICARD: Transporter room three. 
TROI: Computer, halt. Captain, I have to tell you something, and it
isn't easy for me because I've used very poor judgement. Actually, I've
acted quite unprofessionally. 
PICARD: Counsellor, what is it you say? Take a deep breath. 
TROI: Conor and I have had a relationship. 
PICARD: I see. 
TROI: It should never have happened. I knew there was concern about
outside influences and I should have been more careful. 
PICARD: What is your status with him now? 
TROI: I did not intend to see him again. 
PICARD: Would you prefer not to return to the surface? 
TROI: No, I think I should come with you, but I wanted you to know
before we went down. 
PICARD: I appreciate that. Computer, resume. 
TROI: I wanted so much to help him, to be there for him, but the more I
was. 
PICARD: Deanna, we all went into this with the best intentions. 
TROI: I should have walked away as soon as I saw what was happening. 
PICARD: But you didn't. And that's human. We make mistakes. Genetic
manipulation or not, nobody's perfect.

[Laboratory]

MARTIN: You would ignore the welfare of the colony
for your own selfish interests. 
HANNAH: The welfare of this colony would be best served by rejoining
the human race. 
MARTIN: She has been contaminated by the people on that ship. 
(Troi and Picard enter) 
TROI: Aaron. 
PICARD: Mister Conor, I believe that you and I should talk. 
MARTIN: This is your doing. We should never have answered your hails. 
HANNAH: If we'd followed that advice, Martin, we'd all be dead by now.
So much for the welfare of this colony. 
MARTIN: You are not taking her with you. 
HANNAH: I'm leaving. And I'll tell you something else. There are at
least a dozen others who are ready to go with me. 
TROI: Hannah, let's allow Aaron and Captain Picard to discuss this. Why
don't we go for a walk? 
HANNAH: There's nothing else for them to talk about. 
(Hannah and Troi leave) 
CONOR: Martin. 
MARTIN: I think it would be helpful if I. 
CONOR: I want to talk with Captain Picard alone. 
MARTIN: But 
CONOR: Thank you, Martin. 
(Martin leaves) 
CONOR: The irony is, he's the one who saw this coming from the moment
you arrived. Because I didn't want to hear it, I chose not to listen. 
PICARD: You made decisions you felt would save your colony. 
CONOR: No. No, I wish it were that simple, but I can't forgive myself
so easily. You see, Captain, I know what Hannah Bates is feeling. I've
been feeling it as well. I've found your people intriguing and
stimulating as she has. I've been every bit as curious about you as the
next man. But I am not the next man. I am the leader of these people.
And every genetic fibre in my being demands that I protect them.
Instead, I have betrayed them. I have allowed this to happen. 
PICARD: We have both allowed this to happen. 
CONOR: Then let us both find a way to stop it from going any further. 
PICARD: I wish I could see a way. 
CONOR: Picard, I was born to govern this colony, not to dismantle it. 
PICARD: If you force them to stay, you will be suppressing their human
rights. 
CONOR: If even a handful leave, the damage to this society will be
devastating. What about the rights of those who would stay behind? They
are the ones who will inherit the social chaos that will follow for
generations. Your arrival created this problem. Your departure solves
it. 
PICARD: That is simplistic. 
CONOR: Refuse them passage. 
PICARD: I cannot ignore the requests of people, humans, who ask for
transport away from here. 
CONOR: Nor can you ignore the fact that thousands will suffer if you
agree to take them. And as suffering grows, more will demand to leave.
We are witnessing the end of this existence. I implore you, Captain, do
not let this happen. 
PICARD: You would have me make the decision for you, nut I can't do
that. I am willing to talk to these people with you, and I will urge
them not to make an impulsive choice, but if finally they choose to
leave, the Enterprise will not turn them away. 
