TROI RIKER LAFORGE CONOR MARTIN
discovered achieved courtyard environment remain won role designed evolved

[Courtyard]

MARTIN: (an older man) This is a mistake, Aaron. 
CONOR: Good Lord, Martin. What would you have me do? 
MARTIN: Anything that would keep them out of here. 
CONOR: We have nothing to hide. 
MARTIN: We have a great deal to lose. 
(transporter sound) 
MARTIN: What is that? 
CONOR: It's them. Look at this, Martin. 
(Riker, Troi and La Forge appear) 
(after the credits) 
TROI: It's lovely I can understand why you are reluctant to leave,
Mister Conor. 
CONOR: Not just reluctant, Miss Troi. It is imperative that we remain. 
MARTIN: It would be suicide to evacuate. It would destroy everything
we've worked for two centuries to accomplish. 
CONOR: You see, this is an engineered society. 
RIKER: Engineered? 
CONOR: Genetically engineered. Our ancestors came from Earth to develop
a perfect society. They believed that through controlled procreation,
they could create people without flaws and those people would build a
paradise. 
TROI: All of you have been selectively bred? Your DNA patterns chosen? 
CONOR: Eight generations of us. 
MARTIN: We have immeasurably extended the potential of humanity,
physically, psychologically. We have evolved beyond, beyond 
LAFORGE: Beyond us. 
MARTIN: Frankly, yes. No one in this society would be blind, for
example. No offence intended. 
LAFORGE: I can see you just fine, sir. 
MARTIN: Yes. Well, my point was just. 
CONOR: Thank you, Martin. Perhaps you've also made it clear there are
still a few imperfections we're working on. For the most part, we've
achieved a fully integrated existence. Not just among ourselves but
with our environment. We don't just live here, we're a part of our
environment. it is part of us. Every plant life, every microscopic
lifeform is part of a master design. We cannot separate ourselves from
it without irreparably altering who and what we are. 
MARTIN: Your presence here has already begun to affect the entire
balance of our society. 
CONOR: If we do not survive, the balance of our society won't mean a
great deal, will it? 
(Martin leaves in a huff) 
CONOR: I apologise. But he is performing his function as he is designed
to do. 
LAFORGE: What function might that be? 
CONOR: He is the interpreter of our founders' intentions for this
society. 
RIKER: A judge? 
CONOR: Yes, more or less. Obviously, he has no diplomatic talents. 
TROI: And obviously you do. 
CONOR: I have been bred to fill this specific role. We grow up knowing
exactly what our society needs from us. What we are expected to do. 
RIKER: That must take some of fun out it? 
CONOR: Not at all. My entire psychological makeup tells me that I was
born to lead. I am exactly what I would choose to be.
Think of it another way. Are there still people in your society who
have not discovered who they really are, or what they were meant to do
with their lives? They may be in the wrong job, they may be writing bad
poetry. Or worse yet, they may be great poets working as labourers,
never to be discovered. That does not happen here. It is, for us, an
ideal existence. We will not give it up easily. 
TROI: We will do whatever we can to help you preserve it.

