RIKER LAFORGE CONOR HANNAH PICARD TROI
good couldn mister moved doesn generators tremor boost talk

[Engineering]

LAFORGE: In order to move the core fragment to a
safe trajectory, we needed our tractor beam to be able to handle high
power pulses. 
HANNAH: And we needed a much more efficient emitter to do that. 
LAFORGE: About four times more efficient. 
HANNAH: And we couldn't get anywhere near that without overloading the
emitter arrays. 
LAFORGE: So, we added a little visor technology to the process and we
were able to boost the effective force and, at the same time, lower the
power conduit stress levels. 
PICARD: What's the increase in efficiency? 
LAFORGE: Up to almost three hundred percent. 
RIKER: That's not enough. 
HANNAH: That's true. We won't be able to move the fragment as far as
we'd like to, but 
LAFORGE: But if we also fortify the biosphere's structural integrity at
the same time 
HANNAH: With some of the shield improvements I've discovered here, it
could work. 
LAFORGE: Of course, we'll have to lend them some of our engineering
support crews. 
PICARD: Advise Mister Conor, Number One, and brief the appropriate
officers. Prepare them for transport as soon as Mister Conor approves. 
RIKER: Yes, sir. 
[Courtyard]

(Deanna is playing the piano when Aaron joins her) 
CONOR: You're up early. 
TROI: I'm still on Enterprise time. Aaron, I'm going back to the ship.
I'm not going to see you again. 
CONOR: Why? 
TROI: Because it's the right thing to do. 
CONOR: I'm not convinced of that. 
TROI: You know it as well as I do. 
CONOR: You're angry. 
TROI: Yes, I'm angry. I'm angry with myself for allowing this to
happen. 
CONOR: Deanna. 
TROI: I could fall in love with you so easily, but we both know the end
of that story, don't we? How would Martin feel about introducing
half-Betazoid DNA into the genetic balance? 
CONOR: If we have to evacuate, anything's possible. 
TROI: Listen to yourself. A few days ago you wouldn't even talk to us.
This is my fault. I'm so sorry. 
CONOR: I need you here. This doesn't have to happen again. 
TROI: I have to go. 
(La Forge and Hannah beam in) 
HANNAH: Good news, Aaron. We should be able to change the course of the
core fragment, but we'll also need to fortify the structure. And we're
going to need help to do it. 
LAFORGE: We'll need to bring down engineering crews from the Enterprise
to work with your people for the next forty eight hours. 
CONOR: Engineering crews? 
LAFORGE: They have to install five new shield generators and power
supplies. 
HANNAH: Fifty officers are waiting for your approval to transport down.
We don't have much time, Aaron. 
CONOR: Is there any other choice? 
HANNAH: None. 
(Conor nods) 
LAFORGE: Enterprise, you may begin transport when ready. 
(the first five plus equipment arrive immediately. There's another
tremor) 
Captain's log, supplemental. The Enterprise has
moved to a parallel course with the core fragment. We must adjust its
trajectory by a
minimum of one point two degrees to ensure the colony's safety.

