RO TROI MACDUFF WORF PICARD RIKER CRUSHER DATA

[Sickbay]

(so MacDuff is on the biobed with a device over his
forehead) 
CRUSHER: That's strange. The diencephalic activity is exactly the same.
There should be some increase. Let's try broadening the bandwidth. Go
to thirty point one. Raise the frequency as well. Increase by thirty
three percent. 
(MacDuff starts jerking) 
CRUSHER: Something's wrong with the sequencing programme. 
(She disconnects him and wakes him up) 
CRUSHER: Kieran. Kieran. 
MACDUFF: I'm all right. I'm all right. What happened? 
CRUSHER: I don't know. Something went wrong with the sequence
initiator. We're lucky we didn't lose you. Did any of this work? Do you
remember anything more about yourself? 
MACDUFF: No. I'm sorry, Doctor. 
CRUSHER: Back to square one. 
(and a smug grin from MacDuff)

[Ready room]

PICARD: Come. 
MACDUFF: You wanted to see me, Captain? 
PICARD: Yes, Commander. Please, come in. Sit down. I find myself having
grave concerns about our mission. 
MACDUFF: Concerns as to its success? 
PICARD: No, no, no. More fundamental doubts. Whether or not it can be
justified. 
MACDUFF: I've been asking myself the same thing. I'm sure our superiors
feel their orders are justified. 
PICARD: Orders which we can't even verify. 
MACDUFF: Orders we can't ignore. 
PICARD: But I also can't ignore that we have greatly outclassed the
only enemy vessel we've encountered. And that every
single possible shred of information which might shed some light on
this situation has been conveniently eliminated. I feel as though I've
been handed a weapon, sent into a room and told to shoot a stranger.
Well, I need some moral context to justify that action, and I don't
have it. I'm not content simply to obey orders. I need to know that
what I am doing is right. 
MACDUFF: So do I. I'd feel a lot better about this if all the questions
were answered. And if you want to abandon our mission until our
memories return, that's your choice, but I must ask you. Is it right to
risk prolonging this war, to allow the needless deaths of thousands on
both sides, solely on the basis of our moral discomfort?

[MacDuff's quarters]

MACDUFF: Come. 
(Worf enters) 
MACDUFF: Lieutenant. 
WORF: You wished to see me, sir? 
MACDUFF: I did. Please. Memory or no, it seems clear that both you and
I were born for battle. More so than the others. 
WORF: I thought this as well. 
MACDUFF: It's conceivable that is the very reason that we've been
assigned to this vessel. The Enterprise has science officers, medical
specialists, engineers. Our Captain is undoubtedly an accomplished
diplomat. But we, we are the warriors. There are times for diplomacy.
This is not one of them. 
WORF: You're concerned about the Captain? 
MACDUFF: I am concerned about completing our mission, ending this war.
In victory. We may soon face a critical moment. The success of our
mission may hang on a split-second decision. A hesitation would kill us
all, and those that are counting on us will surely die as well. We
cannot let this happen. That'll be all. 
[Bridge]

DATA: We are entering the Lysian system, sir. 
PICARD: Slow to one quarter impulse. 
RO: Yes, sir. 
MACDUFF: The Central Command is directly ahead. Still beyond weapon
range. 
PICARD: Red Alert. Battle stations. Bring us to an attack posture,
Mister Worf. 
WORF: Aye, sir. 
DATA: Sensors show several objects in our path, sir. They are twenty
nine metres in length and are unmanned. 
MACDUFF: According to Starfleet records, they're sentry pods programmed
to defend their Central Command. 
RIKER: I'm reading forty seven of them around the perimeter. 
PICARD: Tactical analysis, Mister Data. 
DATA: The pods are equipped with fusion-generated pulse lasers and
minimal shielding. 
RIKER: Not much power there. 
PICARD: Forward shields to maximum. Lock phasers on the sentry pods.
Prepare to return fire. 
WORF: Shields up. Phasers locked on targets. 
PICARD: Full impulse. Take us straight through them. 
DATA: We are through the perimeter, sir. 
RIKER: That was too easy. 
WORF: We have yet to encounter any battleships. They may lie ahead. 
PICARD: Load all torpedo bays. Ready phasers. 
WORF: Aye, sir. 
MACDUFF: Approaching Central Command. 
(which looks just like the Edo's 'god') 
PICARD: Mister Data, scan for defences. 
DATA: I am picking up no vessels, no additional sentry pods. 
RIKER: Optimal firing range in fifty five seconds. 
MACDUFF: Phaser banks ready. Loading torpedoes. 
PICARD: What are the defensive capabilities of the Central Command? 
DATA: Armaments consist of four laser cannons and thirty nine cobalt
fusion warheads with magnetic propulsion. Defensive shield output is
four point three kilojoules. 
RIKER: One photon torpedo ought to do it. 
TROI: Data, how many people on that station? 
DATA: Fifteen thousand, three hundred eleven. 
MACDUFF: We're within range, Captain. 
PICARD: Stand by. 
MACDUFF: Waiting for your order, sir. 
TROI: Captain, this isn't right. 
MACDUFF: The rest of our forces are depending on us. 
RIKER: How can our mortal enemy be over a hundred years behind us in
weapons technology? 
MACDUFF: Their battleships may be on the way right now. We must attack!

PICARD: I do not fire on defenceless people. Mister Worf open a channel
to the Lysians. 
MACDUFF: Belay that order! There's something wrong with the Captain.
I'm taking command of this vessel. Fire all weapons! Mister Worf. 
(Worf blocks his way, and gets thrown across the Bridge far too easily.
Riker fires a phaser at MacDuff and we briefly see an alien, but he
recovers to try and fire the ships weapons. Riker shoots again, and
Worf joins in. Finally they knock him out)

Captain's log, supplemental. We are on a course to
Starbase three zero one. Doctor Crusher has been working steadily, and
has restored the memories of most of the crew.

