RO RIKER MACDUFF WORF CREWMAN PICARD LAFORGE [OC] TROI WORF [OC] CRUSHER DATA
living okay doing question lives bypass imagine accessed functioning

[Ready room]

LAFORGE [OC]: We should be able to tie them into
the Bridge in just a few minutes. 
WORF: Well done. Now we are ready. 
PICARD: The question is, for what?

[Bridge]

(a phaser shot lances out into space) 
MACDUFF: (at tactical) The phasers are operational. 
WORF: We now have full tactical control. 
PICARD: (helm) We should run a complete diagnostic of all command
systems. 
WORF: A full diagnostic would require us to take our systems offline.
We would be defenceless. 
PICARD: If we're going to trust our lives to these systems, we should
be certain they're not going to fail. 
MACDUFF: The computer was damaged. Some processors might still be down.

WORF: Proceed with the diagnostic. 
(Crusher enters) 
WORF: What have you found, Doctor? 
CRUSHER: Not much. The brain scans I've run are unusual, but there's no
damage to the hippocampus. That suggests that we still have our
long-term memories but somehow they're being blocked. 
PICARD: Is it possible to bypass the normal pathways? To get at those
memories some other way? 
CRUSHER: That's what I'm hoping. What I need now is to see some normal
brain scans for comparison. Is there any chance I can get the crew's
medical files? 
WORF: We are currently running a full diagnostic. Computer resources
are limited. 
PICARD: The medical records are our next priority. 
CRUSHER: Thank you.

[Corridor]

(a crewman is standing in a doorway) 
CREWMAN: I guess these are my quarters, but I don't remember anything. 
RIKER: If it's any comfort, we're all in the same situation, so stay
put for now. We'll be back in touch. 
CREWMAN: Okay, sir. Thanks. 
RO: That's all I need for now. 
(the crewwoman she has been talking goes back into her quarters) 
RO: Well, that's it for the living quarters on this deck. What's next? 
RIKER: There's a large room up ahead called Ten Forward. 
RO: Let's go. So if everything were back to the way it was supposed to
be, what do you think you'd be doing right now? 
RIKER: I'd be having more fun than searching the ship, I'd imagine. 
RO: Fun? 
RIKER: Well, with that holodeck we just saw. I think I could conjure up
an interesting
programme or two. 
RO: Now that's disappointing. 
RIKER: Why? 
RO: You don't strike me as a man who needs a holodeck to have a good
time.

[Ten Forward]

RIKER: Who reported to the Bridge from this group? 
TROI: I did. 
RIKER: Have you found anything that might give us some insight into
what happened? 
TROI: Not specifically, but there are two things that seem unusual. The
bartender is an artificial lifeform. 
DATA: Can I get you something? A beverage? 
RIKER: No, thank you. 
RO: I'm fine. 
RIKER: Your memories are gone as well? 
DATA: The databanks that identify who I am are not functioning. 
RIKER: You were going to mention something else? 
TROI: I don't know if this means anything, but I seem to have an
ability that the others don't. I have a very strong sense of what other
people are feeling at times it's almost 
RIKER: Is something wrong? 
TROI: No. Just for a moment, you seemed familiar. 
RIKER: You remember me? 
TROI: Not exactly. I mean, I don't know who you are, but there's
something about you. 
WORF [OC]: Bridge to survey team. 
RIKER: Survey team here. Go ahead. 
WORF [OC]: We have accessed the personnel files. Report to the Bridge
immediately. 
RO: We're on our way.

