TROI MACDUFF CRUSHER LAFORGE PICARD RIKER RIKER + TROI RO DATA
increase kieran subroutine federation thirty leaves hitting panic called

[Engineering]

LAFORGE: I don't get it. I'm still hitting a file
wall. 
DATA: There appears to be a command path discontinuity. I shall attempt
to rewrite the locator subroutine. 
LAFORGE: You must have been one hell of a bartender. It's too bad there
aren't any more of you around. We could certainly use the help. 
DATA: Yes. 
LAFORGE: I wonder why you're the only one on board? 
DATA: I have expended considerable thought with respect to my apparent
uniqueness among the crew. 
LAFORGE: Any conclusions? 
DATA: Several possibilities suggest themselves. I may represent an
entire race of artificial lifeforms. If so, there may be a home planet
for others of my kind. A shared history and a culture of which I am not
presently aware. 
LAFORGE: Then again, you could've been built just for this ship. 
DATA: I have considered that possibility as well. It may also be the
case that every starship in the Federation is equipped with an
artificial lifeform such as myself. 
LAFORGE: If that's true, maybe you all look alike. A standard issue
android. Hard to construct so only one allowed per vessel. 
DATA: There is another possibility. Perhaps my origin is unique. In
that case, I am alone. We have accessed the information storage area.
Considerable damage has been done to the files themselves. 
LAFORGE: The mission reports are gone. 
DATA: As well as the crew records, and the personal logs. 
LAFORGE: So are the medical records.

[Riker's quarters]

RIKER: Come in. 
TROI: I'm restless. Mind if I visit for a while? 
RIKER: Please. What's wrong? 
TROI: Everything. Every time I think about this war, our mission, I
feel a sense of panic like a hand's closing around my throat. 
RIKER: You're never going to feel good about this war. None of us will.
But we've got to complete our mission. I've been doing a little
research, trying to find out about William T Riker. 
TROI: What have you discovered? 
RIKER: He's a musician, for one thing. 
(plays a little on the trombone) 
TROI: Very impressive. 
RIKER: No one was more surprised than I. 
TROI: So what else has your research uncovered about William Riker? 
RIKER: He's athletically inclined, loves to climb mountain. He's from
somewhere called Alaska. He enjoys exotic food, and takes his vacations
on a planet called Risa. 
TROI: Ode to Psyche. John Keats. 
RIKER: Open it. 
TROI: To Will, all my love, Deanna. 
RIKER: That may explain some of the familiar feelings we have. 
TROI: I don't know what to think. 
(they lean in for a kiss and the doorbell chimes) 
RIKER: Come in. 
(Laren enters) 
RO: Hello, Counsellor. 
TROI: Ensign. 
RO: Am I interrupting anything? 
RIKER + TROI: No. 
TROI: I was just visiting. We'll talk again soon, Commander. 
RIKER: Of course. Thank you, Counsellor. 
RO: Bye. 
(Troi leaves) 
RO: And what was all of that about? 
RIKER: Oh, we were just discussing the situation we're all in. 
RO: Good. Because I have a feeling that I used to be the jealous type.

[Bridge]

LAFORGE: What bothers me, Captain, is how specific
this damage is. Any records of a personal nature, any files that could
tell us about who we are, those are the ones that are gone. 
RIKER: It's a little too selective to be coincidence. 
CRUSHER: As selective as what was done to our own memories. Skills
still in place but personal knowledge is unavailable. 
MACDUFF: It is consistent with what we know about the new Lysian
weapon. 
PICARD: Doctor, is it absolutely necessary to see the medical files to
attempt treatment? 
CRUSHER: It would be dangerous to do it without them. 
RIKER: It's a risk I think we have to take. 
MACDUFF: He's right, Captain. I volunteer for the procedure.

[Sickbay]

(so MacDuff is on the biobed with a device over his
forehead) 
CRUSHER: That's strange. The diencephalic activity is exactly the same.
There should be some increase. Let's try broadening the bandwidth. Go
to thirty point one. Raise the frequency as well. Increase by thirty
three percent. 
(MacDuff starts jerking) 
CRUSHER: Something's wrong with the sequencing programme. 
(She disconnects him and wakes him up) 
CRUSHER: Kieran. Kieran. 
MACDUFF: I'm all right. I'm all right. What happened? 
CRUSHER: I don't know. Something went wrong with the sequence
initiator. We're lucky we didn't lose you. Did any of this work? Do you
remember anything more about yourself? 
MACDUFF: No. I'm sorry, Doctor. 
CRUSHER: Back to square one. 
(and a smug grin from MacDuff)

