PICARD MACDUFF CRUSHER LAFORGE WORF

[Ready room]

(Picard and MacDuff report to Captain Worf) 
PICARD: So far our survey team has found no deaths or injuries among
the crew. Shuttlecraft are all operational, as are the transporters. 
MACDUFF: But no one they've talked to knows any more about their
identities than we do. 
WORF: Engineering is working on accessing the control systems. As soon
as the ship is operational, we must make it combat ready. 
PICARD: Well, I would recommend that before we prepare for combat, we
try to access the ship's logs, find out who we are, what our purpose
here might be. 
WORF: I disagree. We must first make ourselves ready for battle. That
is the highest priority. 
LAFORGE [OC]: Engineering to Bridge. 
WORF: Go ahead. 
[Engineering]

LAFORGE: I've regained control of navigation,
propulsion, weapons and communications. 
[Ready room]

LAFORGE [OC]: We should be able to tie them into
the Bridge in just a few minutes. 
WORF: Well done. Now we are ready. 
PICARD: The question is, for what?

[Bridge]

(a phaser shot lances out into space) 
MACDUFF: (at tactical) The phasers are operational. 
WORF: We now have full tactical control. 
PICARD: (helm) We should run a complete diagnostic of all command
systems. 
WORF: A full diagnostic would require us to take our systems offline.
We would be defenceless. 
PICARD: If we're going to trust our lives to these systems, we should
be certain they're not going to fail. 
MACDUFF: The computer was damaged. Some processors might still be down.

WORF: Proceed with the diagnostic. 
(Crusher enters) 
WORF: What have you found, Doctor? 
CRUSHER: Not much. The brain scans I've run are unusual, but there's no
damage to the hippocampus. That suggests that we still have our
long-term memories but somehow they're being blocked. 
PICARD: Is it possible to bypass the normal pathways? To get at those
memories some other way? 
CRUSHER: That's what I'm hoping. What I need now is to see some normal
brain scans for comparison. Is there any chance I can get the crew's
medical files? 
WORF: We are currently running a full diagnostic. Computer resources
are limited. 
PICARD: The medical records are our next priority. 
CRUSHER: Thank you.

