RO TROI MACDUFF LAFORGE WORF PICARD RIKER CRUSHER DATA

[Bridge]

WORF: Captain, we have crossed the Lysian border. 
PICARD: Take us out of warp, Ensign. Go to three quarters impulse. 
RO: Yes, sir. 
PICARD: Mister Worf, maintain a continuous sensor sweep. 
WORF: Aye, sir. 
MACDUFF: How long till we reach their central command? 
DATA: At our current speed, approximately thirty seven hours. 
WORF: Captain, I am picking up a vessel directly ahead. 
PICARD: Can you identify it, Mister Data? 
DATA: The ship matches the Starfleet description of a Lysian destroyer.
A short range attack vessel with disruptor style weapons, and a
standard crew of fifty three. 
WORF: Within visual range. 
PICARD: On screen. 
(it's just like the first ship they encountered) 
WORF: The destroyer is increasing its speed. They are moving to
intercept. 
PICARD: Evasive manoeuvre sequence delta. 
RO: Yes, sir. 
WORF: They are matching our manoeuvres. 
MACDUFF: Activating phaser arrays. Ready to fire, sir. 
PICARD: Stand by. 
MACDUFF: Captain, our orders were to destroy all Lysian warships. 
PICARD: I'm aware of that, Commander. Tactical analysis, Mister Data. 
DATA: The destroyer has minimal shields. Their disruptor capacity
appears to be only two point one megajoules. 
RIKER: They're no match for the Enterprise. 
DATA: Captain, the destroyer is hailing us. 
PICARD: Open a channel. 
MACDUFF: No! Their new weapon. Whatever it was that erased out our
computers and our memories, maybe this is how they do it, over
communication channels. 
DATA: It is conceivable, sir. 
TROI: It's also possible that they just want to talk to us. I think we
should respond. 
WORF: Captain, the ship is hailing us again. 
MACDUFF: If you're wrong, it could mean our destruction. We can't take
the risk, Captain. 
DATA: The Lysians have stopped transmitting, Captain. They are powering
up their disruptors. They have locked onto us, sir. 
RIKER: Full shields. 
WORF: Shields up. 
MACDUFF: Captain? 
PICARD: Return fire. 
(KaBOOM) 
WORF: The ship has been destroyed. 
PICARD: Maintain this course, Ensign. Three quarters impulse. 
RO: Yes, sir. 
MACDUFF: Well done, Captain.

[Observation lounge]

WORF: The Lysian Central Command would have
received any transmission from the destroyer by now. 
MACDUFF: They're going to be on alert. 
RO: I recommend a randomly vectored approach to our target. It would be
our best chance of avoiding sort of any pursuit. 
PICARD: Agreed. Doctor, the success of this mission would be far more
likely if we could get our memories back. Is there anything you can do?

CRUSHER: I found several cases resembling our condition in the medical
index. The causes are different, but the cure is similar in each case. 
RIKER: Could the same treatment work for us? 
CRUSHER: That's my hope. It involves increasing the activity of the
medial temporal region of the brain, using short-term memory synapses
to retrieve long-term memory. 
PICARD: When can you start? 
CRUSHER: As soon as our medical files become available. It would be
dangerous to attempt treatment without them. 
PICARD: Mister La Forge? 
LAFORGE: Data and I ran into some trouble accessing the medical file
areas in the computer, but with a little time I'm pretty sure we'll be
able to get there. Three hours, maximum. 
PICARD: Proceed.

[Engineering]

LAFORGE: I don't get it. I'm still hitting a file
wall. 
DATA: There appears to be a command path discontinuity. I shall attempt
to rewrite the locator subroutine. 
LAFORGE: You must have been one hell of a bartender. It's too bad there
aren't any more of you around. We could certainly use the help. 
DATA: Yes. 
LAFORGE: I wonder why you're the only one on board? 
DATA: I have expended considerable thought with respect to my apparent
uniqueness among the crew. 
LAFORGE: Any conclusions? 
DATA: Several possibilities suggest themselves. I may represent an
entire race of artificial lifeforms. If so, there may be a home planet
for others of my kind. A shared history and a culture of which I am not
presently aware. 
LAFORGE: Then again, you could've been built just for this ship. 
DATA: I have considered that possibility as well. It may also be the
case that every starship in the Federation is equipped with an
artificial lifeform such as myself. 
LAFORGE: If that's true, maybe you all look alike. A standard issue
android. Hard to construct so only one allowed per vessel. 
DATA: There is another possibility. Perhaps my origin is unique. In
that case, I am alone. We have accessed the information storage area.
Considerable damage has been done to the files themselves. 
LAFORGE: The mission reports are gone. 
DATA: As well as the crew records, and the personal logs. 
LAFORGE: So are the medical records.

[Riker's quarters]

RIKER: Come in. 
TROI: I'm restless. Mind if I visit for a while? 
RIKER: Please. What's wrong? 
TROI: Everything. Every time I think about this war, our mission, I
feel a sense of panic like a hand's closing around my throat. 
RIKER: You're never going to feel good about this war. None of us will.
But we've got to complete our mission. I've been doing a little
research, trying to find out about William T Riker. 
TROI: What have you discovered? 
RIKER: He's a musician, for one thing. 
(plays a little on the trombone) 
TROI: Very impressive. 
RIKER: No one was more surprised than I. 
TROI: So what else has your research uncovered about William Riker? 
RIKER: He's athletically inclined, loves to climb mountain. He's from
somewhere called Alaska. He enjoys exotic food, and takes his vacations
on a planet called Risa. 
TROI: Ode to Psyche. John Keats. 
RIKER: Open it. 
TROI: To Will, all my love, Deanna. 
RIKER: That may explain some of the familiar feelings we have. 
TROI: I don't know what to think. 
(they lean in for a kiss and the doorbell chimes) 
RIKER: Come in. 
(Laren enters) 
RO: Hello, Counsellor. 
TROI: Ensign. 
RO: Am I interrupting anything? 
RIKER + TROI: No. 
TROI: I was just visiting. We'll talk again soon, Commander. 
RIKER: Of course. Thank you, Counsellor. 
RO: Bye. 
(Troi leaves) 
RO: And what was all of that about? 
RIKER: Oh, we were just discussing the situation we're all in. 
RO: Good. Because I have a feeling that I used to be the jealous type.

