RO TROI MACDUFF LAFORGE WORF PICARD RIKER CRUSHER DATA
respond term said bartender federation weapons memory destroy minimal

[Riker's quarters]

(someone is in casual clothes, reading a book) 
RO: Hi. 
RIKER: I know I didn't get the wrong room. 
RO: I just didn't like the way my quarters were decorated. Besides, I
have this funny feeling that maybe I spend most of my off hours here. 
RIKER: Really? 
RO: For all we know, you and I could be married. 
RIKER: For all we know, you and I could hate each other. 
RO: Sort of exciting, isn't it? We just don't know. 
RIKER: We might regret this. 
RO: Regret what? Aren't you being a little presumptuous? Like I said, I
just didn't like the way my quarters were decorated. 
RIKER: Maybe we should switch quarters. 
RO: Maybe we should stay right here and see what happens. 
RIKER: What if I snore in my sleep? 
RO: What makes you think you're going to get any sleep?

[Bridge]

WORF: Captain, we have crossed the Lysian border. 
PICARD: Take us out of warp, Ensign. Go to three quarters impulse. 
RO: Yes, sir. 
PICARD: Mister Worf, maintain a continuous sensor sweep. 
WORF: Aye, sir. 
MACDUFF: How long till we reach their central command? 
DATA: At our current speed, approximately thirty seven hours. 
WORF: Captain, I am picking up a vessel directly ahead. 
PICARD: Can you identify it, Mister Data? 
DATA: The ship matches the Starfleet description of a Lysian destroyer.
A short range attack vessel with disruptor style weapons, and a
standard crew of fifty three. 
WORF: Within visual range. 
PICARD: On screen. 
(it's just like the first ship they encountered) 
WORF: The destroyer is increasing its speed. They are moving to
intercept. 
PICARD: Evasive manoeuvre sequence delta. 
RO: Yes, sir. 
WORF: They are matching our manoeuvres. 
MACDUFF: Activating phaser arrays. Ready to fire, sir. 
PICARD: Stand by. 
MACDUFF: Captain, our orders were to destroy all Lysian warships. 
PICARD: I'm aware of that, Commander. Tactical analysis, Mister Data. 
DATA: The destroyer has minimal shields. Their disruptor capacity
appears to be only two point one megajoules. 
RIKER: They're no match for the Enterprise. 
DATA: Captain, the destroyer is hailing us. 
PICARD: Open a channel. 
MACDUFF: No! Their new weapon. Whatever it was that erased out our
computers and our memories, maybe this is how they do it, over
communication channels. 
DATA: It is conceivable, sir. 
TROI: It's also possible that they just want to talk to us. I think we
should respond. 
WORF: Captain, the ship is hailing us again. 
MACDUFF: If you're wrong, it could mean our destruction. We can't take
the risk, Captain. 
DATA: The Lysians have stopped transmitting, Captain. They are powering
up their disruptors. They have locked onto us, sir. 
RIKER: Full shields. 
WORF: Shields up. 
MACDUFF: Captain? 
PICARD: Return fire. 
(KaBOOM) 
WORF: The ship has been destroyed. 
PICARD: Maintain this course, Ensign. Three quarters impulse. 
RO: Yes, sir. 
MACDUFF: Well done, Captain.

[Observation lounge]

WORF: The Lysian Central Command would have
received any transmission from the destroyer by now. 
MACDUFF: They're going to be on alert. 
RO: I recommend a randomly vectored approach to our target. It would be
our best chance of avoiding sort of any pursuit. 
PICARD: Agreed. Doctor, the success of this mission would be far more
likely if we could get our memories back. Is there anything you can do?

CRUSHER: I found several cases resembling our condition in the medical
index. The causes are different, but the cure is similar in each case. 
RIKER: Could the same treatment work for us? 
CRUSHER: That's my hope. It involves increasing the activity of the
medial temporal region of the brain, using short-term memory synapses
to retrieve long-term memory. 
PICARD: When can you start? 
CRUSHER: As soon as our medical files become available. It would be
dangerous to attempt treatment without them. 
PICARD: Mister La Forge? 
LAFORGE: Data and I ran into some trouble accessing the medical file
areas in the computer, but with a little time I'm pretty sure we'll be
able to get there. Three hours, maximum. 
PICARD: Proceed.

[Engineering]

LAFORGE: I don't get it. I'm still hitting a file
wall. 
DATA: There appears to be a command path discontinuity. I shall attempt
to rewrite the locator subroutine. 
LAFORGE: You must have been one hell of a bartender. It's too bad there
aren't any more of you around. We could certainly use the help. 
DATA: Yes. 
LAFORGE: I wonder why you're the only one on board? 
DATA: I have expended considerable thought with respect to my apparent
uniqueness among the crew. 
LAFORGE: Any conclusions? 
DATA: Several possibilities suggest themselves. I may represent an
entire race of artificial lifeforms. If so, there may be a home planet
for others of my kind. A shared history and a culture of which I am not
presently aware. 
LAFORGE: Then again, you could've been built just for this ship. 
DATA: I have considered that possibility as well. It may also be the
case that every starship in the Federation is equipped with an
artificial lifeform such as myself. 
LAFORGE: If that's true, maybe you all look alike. A standard issue
android. Hard to construct so only one allowed per vessel. 
DATA: There is another possibility. Perhaps my origin is unique. In
that case, I am alone. We have accessed the information storage area.
Considerable damage has been done to the files themselves. 
LAFORGE: The mission reports are gone. 
DATA: As well as the crew records, and the personal logs. 
LAFORGE: So are the medical records.

