TROI MACDUFF LAFORGE CREWMAN WORF [OC] RIKER COMPUTER WORF PICARD RO DATA
gone ships behaviour lieutenant chief enterprise need fine mean

[Corridor]

(a crewman is standing in a doorway) 
CREWMAN: I guess these are my quarters, but I don't remember anything. 
RIKER: If it's any comfort, we're all in the same situation, so stay
put for now. We'll be back in touch. 
CREWMAN: Okay, sir. Thanks. 
RO: That's all I need for now. 
(the crewwoman she has been talking goes back into her quarters) 
RO: Well, that's it for the living quarters on this deck. What's next? 
RIKER: There's a large room up ahead called Ten Forward. 
RO: Let's go. So if everything were back to the way it was supposed to
be, what do you think you'd be doing right now? 
RIKER: I'd be having more fun than searching the ship, I'd imagine. 
RO: Fun? 
RIKER: Well, with that holodeck we just saw. I think I could conjure up
an interesting
programme or two. 
RO: Now that's disappointing. 
RIKER: Why? 
RO: You don't strike me as a man who needs a holodeck to have a good
time.

[Ten Forward]

RIKER: Who reported to the Bridge from this group? 
TROI: I did. 
RIKER: Have you found anything that might give us some insight into
what happened? 
TROI: Not specifically, but there are two things that seem unusual. The
bartender is an artificial lifeform. 
DATA: Can I get you something? A beverage? 
RIKER: No, thank you. 
RO: I'm fine. 
RIKER: Your memories are gone as well? 
DATA: The databanks that identify who I am are not functioning. 
RIKER: You were going to mention something else? 
TROI: I don't know if this means anything, but I seem to have an
ability that the others don't. I have a very strong sense of what other
people are feeling at times it's almost 
RIKER: Is something wrong? 
TROI: No. Just for a moment, you seemed familiar. 
RIKER: You remember me? 
TROI: Not exactly. I mean, I don't know who you are, but there's
something about you. 
WORF [OC]: Bridge to survey team. 
RIKER: Survey team here. Go ahead. 
WORF [OC]: We have accessed the personnel files. Report to the Bridge
immediately. 
RO: We're on our way.

[Bridge]

LAFORGE: Computer give me a biographical listing of
all personnel responsible for primary operation of the ship. 
COMPUTER: A full biographical listing is not available. 
LAFORGE: Is there any list of the ship's senior officers? 
COMPUTER: The crew manifest is available. 
LAFORGE: That's better than nothing. Give me the crew manifest. 
COMPUTER: Commanding Officer, Captain Jean-Luc Picard. Executive
Officer, Commander Keiran MacDuff. Second Officer, Commander
William Riker. Operations Officer, Lieutenant Commander Data. Chief
Medical Officer, Doctor Beverly Crusher. Ship's Counsellor, Lieutenant
Commander Deanna Troi. Chief Engineer, Lieutenant Commander Geordi La
Forge. Security Chief, Lieutenant Worf. Helm Officer, Ensign Ro Laren. 
PICARD: Commander MacDuff, have the other officers listed here report
to the Bridge. 
MACDUFF: Aye, sir. 
PICARD: Your next priority will be to retrieve any information you can
about this ship's mission. Contact the Operations
Officer to assist you. 
LAFORGE: Aye, sir. 
RO: He's in Ten Forward, waiting tables. 
WORF: Captain. I regret my recent behaviour. I assumed an attitude of
authority that was unwarranted. 
PICARD: Mister Worf, we're all doing the best we can in a difficult
situation. Think nothing more of it. 
WORF: Thank you, Captain.

[Observation lounge]

LAFORGE: We haven't finished a full search of the
computer records, but we have found out quite a bit. 
DATA: This vessel is called the Enterprise. We are part of an
organization called the United Federation of Planets. The
Federation is currently in a state of war. 
TROI: With whom? 
LAFORGE: The Lysian Alliance. They're a genocidal race determined to
destroy us. The war has been going on for years. 
DATA: Starfleet Command believes the Lysians are using a new weapon
which has shifted the balance of power to their favour. 
LAFORGE: Over the last two months, fourteen Federation ships have been
captured, apparently very easily, their crews held captive on Lysia. 
PICARD: What do we know about this weapon? 
DATA: Our scientists theorise the Lysians are using an energy wave,
either plasma-based or a subspace interference pattern. The weapon
severely disrupts a starship's computer system as well as the mental
functions of its crew. 
MACDUFF: That's what happened to us. 
PICARD: Mister La Forge, do we have any record of our current mission? 
LAFORGE: Yes, sir. (goes to wall screen) We're approximately here.
We've been ordered to cross into Lysian territory and destroy their
Central
Command. This is it. The nerve centre for the entire Lysian military
operation. 
TROI: Captain, there's been a great deal of damage to our computer
system. Maybe we're not getting the correct information. 
PICARD: What are you saying? 
TROI: That we get confirmation of this mission from our headquarters. 
WORF: If we use subspace radio we will be detected. 
TROI: There could be thousands of lives at stake. 
LAFORGE: Our orders specifically require us to maintain radio silence. 
DATA: Our mission is part of a highly coordinated effort to put an end
to the war. There are other vessels on other fronts, all working
according to an intricate plan. 
LAFORGE: We're the lynchpin to the operation. If we don't destroy the
Central Command, the entire effort will fail. 
WORF: He's right, Captain. Our choice is clear. 
PICARD: Commander MacDuff, set a course for the Lysian Central Command.

