TROI MACDUFF CRUSHER LAFORGE PICARD RIKER RO

[Riker's quarters]

RIKER: Come in. 
TROI: I'm restless. Mind if I visit for a while? 
RIKER: Please. What's wrong? 
TROI: Everything. Every time I think about this war, our mission, I
feel a sense of panic like a hand's closing around my throat. 
RIKER: You're never going to feel good about this war. None of us will.
But we've got to complete our mission. I've been doing a little
research, trying to find out about William T Riker. 
TROI: What have you discovered? 
RIKER: He's a musician, for one thing. 
(plays a little on the trombone) 
TROI: Very impressive. 
RIKER: No one was more surprised than I. 
TROI: So what else has your research uncovered about William Riker? 
RIKER: He's athletically inclined, loves to climb mountain. He's from
somewhere called Alaska. He enjoys exotic food, and takes his vacations
on a planet called Risa. 
TROI: Ode to Psyche. John Keats. 
RIKER: Open it. 
TROI: To Will, all my love, Deanna. 
RIKER: That may explain some of the familiar feelings we have. 
TROI: I don't know what to think. 
(they lean in for a kiss and the doorbell chimes) 
RIKER: Come in. 
(Laren enters) 
RO: Hello, Counsellor. 
TROI: Ensign. 
RO: Am I interrupting anything? 
RIKER + TROI: No. 
TROI: I was just visiting. We'll talk again soon, Commander. 
RIKER: Of course. Thank you, Counsellor. 
RO: Bye. 
(Troi leaves) 
RO: And what was all of that about? 
RIKER: Oh, we were just discussing the situation we're all in. 
RO: Good. Because I have a feeling that I used to be the jealous type.

[Bridge]

LAFORGE: What bothers me, Captain, is how specific
this damage is. Any records of a personal nature, any files that could
tell us about who we are, those are the ones that are gone. 
RIKER: It's a little too selective to be coincidence. 
CRUSHER: As selective as what was done to our own memories. Skills
still in place but personal knowledge is unavailable. 
MACDUFF: It is consistent with what we know about the new Lysian
weapon. 
PICARD: Doctor, is it absolutely necessary to see the medical files to
attempt treatment? 
CRUSHER: It would be dangerous to do it without them. 
RIKER: It's a risk I think we have to take. 
MACDUFF: He's right, Captain. I volunteer for the procedure.

[Sickbay]

(so MacDuff is on the biobed with a device over his
forehead) 
CRUSHER: That's strange. The diencephalic activity is exactly the same.
There should be some increase. Let's try broadening the bandwidth. Go
to thirty point one. Raise the frequency as well. Increase by thirty
three percent. 
(MacDuff starts jerking) 
CRUSHER: Something's wrong with the sequencing programme. 
(She disconnects him and wakes him up) 
CRUSHER: Kieran. Kieran. 
MACDUFF: I'm all right. I'm all right. What happened? 
CRUSHER: I don't know. Something went wrong with the sequence
initiator. We're lucky we didn't lose you. Did any of this work? Do you
remember anything more about yourself? 
MACDUFF: No. I'm sorry, Doctor. 
CRUSHER: Back to square one. 
(and a smug grin from MacDuff)

[Ready room]

PICARD: Come. 
MACDUFF: You wanted to see me, Captain? 
PICARD: Yes, Commander. Please, come in. Sit down. I find myself having
grave concerns about our mission. 
MACDUFF: Concerns as to its success? 
PICARD: No, no, no. More fundamental doubts. Whether or not it can be
justified. 
MACDUFF: I've been asking myself the same thing. I'm sure our superiors
feel their orders are justified. 
PICARD: Orders which we can't even verify. 
MACDUFF: Orders we can't ignore. 
PICARD: But I also can't ignore that we have greatly outclassed the
only enemy vessel we've encountered. And that every
single possible shred of information which might shed some light on
this situation has been conveniently eliminated. I feel as though I've
been handed a weapon, sent into a room and told to shoot a stranger.
Well, I need some moral context to justify that action, and I don't
have it. I'm not content simply to obey orders. I need to know that
what I am doing is right. 
MACDUFF: So do I. I'd feel a lot better about this if all the questions
were answered. And if you want to abandon our mission until our
memories return, that's your choice, but I must ask you. Is it right to
risk prolonging this war, to allow the needless deaths of thousands on
both sides, solely on the basis of our moral discomfort?

