RIKER RO MACDUFF WORF LAFORGE
phaser affected working feel routed running main minute really

[Bridge]

(everyone is working at the rear stations except
Worf, who is in the Captain's chair) 
MACDUFF: We've heard from all decks. There are over a thousand people
on board. Everyone's had their memories affected in the same way we
have. 
WORF: I have completed a survey of our tactical systems. We are
equipped with ten phaser banks, two hundred and fifty photon torpedoes,
and a high capacity shield grid. 
MACDUFF: We're a battleship. 
WORF: It appears so. 
RO: This turbolift system gives us access to the rest of the ship. 
RIKER: That sounds like the next logical step. Start with the most
crucial areas. 
RO: Main Engineering, deck thirty six. I'm on my way. 
RIKER: Whoa, wait a minute. We've got to coordinate our efforts here
first. 
RO: I just need to do something. 
RIKER: Look, I feel the same way. We all do. But if anything's going to
get done. 
RO: I know, I just. It's really an ugly feeling I don't like being so
out of control. 
RIKER: Well, we're going to have to depend on each other if we're going
to get through this, okay? 
RO: Okay. 
RIKER: We're going to search the ship. 
WORF: Very well. Proceed. 
LAFORGE: I'll go with you. I want to get my hands on the computer core.
See if we can re-establish control from there.

[Engineering]

LAFORGE: I've accessed the optical data network for
the engineering core. I can monitor every system that's routed through
here. 
RO: Warp and impulse drive are reading within tolerance levels. So are
the tactical arrays, defensive and offensive. 
LAFORGE: Everything looks functional. Now, if we could just access the
control systems, we could get them up and running. 
RIKER: According to the schematics, the engineering computer core
access is down that corridor. 
RO: Weapons, propulsion and shields are the priorities. We could be in
danger of another attack. 
LAFORGE: That's where I'll start. 
RIKER: We'll begin our crew survey on decks five through ten. When you
get those systems going, try to pull up the personnel files. It'd be
nice if we all had names. Right. Good luck. 
LAFORGE: Yeah. You too.

