TROI MACDUFF LAFORGE WORF PICARD RIKER RO DATA

[Observation lounge]

LAFORGE: We haven't finished a full search of the
computer records, but we have found out quite a bit. 
DATA: This vessel is called the Enterprise. We are part of an
organization called the United Federation of Planets. The
Federation is currently in a state of war. 
TROI: With whom? 
LAFORGE: The Lysian Alliance. They're a genocidal race determined to
destroy us. The war has been going on for years. 
DATA: Starfleet Command believes the Lysians are using a new weapon
which has shifted the balance of power to their favour. 
LAFORGE: Over the last two months, fourteen Federation ships have been
captured, apparently very easily, their crews held captive on Lysia. 
PICARD: What do we know about this weapon? 
DATA: Our scientists theorise the Lysians are using an energy wave,
either plasma-based or a subspace interference pattern. The weapon
severely disrupts a starship's computer system as well as the mental
functions of its crew. 
MACDUFF: That's what happened to us. 
PICARD: Mister La Forge, do we have any record of our current mission? 
LAFORGE: Yes, sir. (goes to wall screen) We're approximately here.
We've been ordered to cross into Lysian territory and destroy their
Central
Command. This is it. The nerve centre for the entire Lysian military
operation. 
TROI: Captain, there's been a great deal of damage to our computer
system. Maybe we're not getting the correct information. 
PICARD: What are you saying? 
TROI: That we get confirmation of this mission from our headquarters. 
WORF: If we use subspace radio we will be detected. 
TROI: There could be thousands of lives at stake. 
LAFORGE: Our orders specifically require us to maintain radio silence. 
DATA: Our mission is part of a highly coordinated effort to put an end
to the war. There are other vessels on other fronts, all working
according to an intricate plan. 
LAFORGE: We're the lynchpin to the operation. If we don't destroy the
Central Command, the entire effort will fail. 
WORF: He's right, Captain. Our choice is clear. 
PICARD: Commander MacDuff, set a course for the Lysian Central Command.

[Corridor]

(using a PADD as a map) 
RIKER: These are your quarters. 
TROI: Thanks for your help. Come in for a minute?

[Troi's quarters]

RIKER: Recognise anything? 
TROI: It's like it belongs to someone else. Nothing feels right. This
room, this ship, most of all this war we're fighting. 
RIKER: I don't imagine war ever feels right. 
TROI: I suppose that's true. 
RIKER: What is it? 
TROI: That same feeling. You seem familiar. You're the only thing that
does. 
RIKER: Can you remember anything specific about us? 
TROI: I don't know. It's more like remembering an emotion. Feelings
that you're somehow associated with. 
RIKER: I hope they're good feelings. 
TROI: Yes, they are. This entire situation is a little unnerving. 
RIKER: It's been a long day. We've all been through a lot. 
TROI: We certainly have. 
(she gives him a peck on the cheek) 
RIKER: I'll see you tomorrow. Goodnight.

[Riker's quarters]

(someone is in casual clothes, reading a book) 
RO: Hi. 
RIKER: I know I didn't get the wrong room. 
RO: I just didn't like the way my quarters were decorated. Besides, I
have this funny feeling that maybe I spend most of my off hours here. 
RIKER: Really? 
RO: For all we know, you and I could be married. 
RIKER: For all we know, you and I could hate each other. 
RO: Sort of exciting, isn't it? We just don't know. 
RIKER: We might regret this. 
RO: Regret what? Aren't you being a little presumptuous? Like I said, I
just didn't like the way my quarters were decorated. 
RIKER: Maybe we should switch quarters. 
RO: Maybe we should stay right here and see what happens. 
RIKER: What if I snore in my sleep? 
RO: What makes you think you're going to get any sleep?

