TROI MACDUFF LAFORGE WORF PICARD RIKER COMPUTER RO DATA

[Bridge]

LAFORGE: Computer give me a biographical listing of
all personnel responsible for primary operation of the ship. 
COMPUTER: A full biographical listing is not available. 
LAFORGE: Is there any list of the ship's senior officers? 
COMPUTER: The crew manifest is available. 
LAFORGE: That's better than nothing. Give me the crew manifest. 
COMPUTER: Commanding Officer, Captain Jean-Luc Picard. Executive
Officer, Commander Keiran MacDuff. Second Officer, Commander
William Riker. Operations Officer, Lieutenant Commander Data. Chief
Medical Officer, Doctor Beverly Crusher. Ship's Counsellor, Lieutenant
Commander Deanna Troi. Chief Engineer, Lieutenant Commander Geordi La
Forge. Security Chief, Lieutenant Worf. Helm Officer, Ensign Ro Laren. 
PICARD: Commander MacDuff, have the other officers listed here report
to the Bridge. 
MACDUFF: Aye, sir. 
PICARD: Your next priority will be to retrieve any information you can
about this ship's mission. Contact the Operations
Officer to assist you. 
LAFORGE: Aye, sir. 
RO: He's in Ten Forward, waiting tables. 
WORF: Captain. I regret my recent behaviour. I assumed an attitude of
authority that was unwarranted. 
PICARD: Mister Worf, we're all doing the best we can in a difficult
situation. Think nothing more of it. 
WORF: Thank you, Captain.

[Observation lounge]

LAFORGE: We haven't finished a full search of the
computer records, but we have found out quite a bit. 
DATA: This vessel is called the Enterprise. We are part of an
organization called the United Federation of Planets. The
Federation is currently in a state of war. 
TROI: With whom? 
LAFORGE: The Lysian Alliance. They're a genocidal race determined to
destroy us. The war has been going on for years. 
DATA: Starfleet Command believes the Lysians are using a new weapon
which has shifted the balance of power to their favour. 
LAFORGE: Over the last two months, fourteen Federation ships have been
captured, apparently very easily, their crews held captive on Lysia. 
PICARD: What do we know about this weapon? 
DATA: Our scientists theorise the Lysians are using an energy wave,
either plasma-based or a subspace interference pattern. The weapon
severely disrupts a starship's computer system as well as the mental
functions of its crew. 
MACDUFF: That's what happened to us. 
PICARD: Mister La Forge, do we have any record of our current mission? 
LAFORGE: Yes, sir. (goes to wall screen) We're approximately here.
We've been ordered to cross into Lysian territory and destroy their
Central
Command. This is it. The nerve centre for the entire Lysian military
operation. 
TROI: Captain, there's been a great deal of damage to our computer
system. Maybe we're not getting the correct information. 
PICARD: What are you saying? 
TROI: That we get confirmation of this mission from our headquarters. 
WORF: If we use subspace radio we will be detected. 
TROI: There could be thousands of lives at stake. 
LAFORGE: Our orders specifically require us to maintain radio silence. 
DATA: Our mission is part of a highly coordinated effort to put an end
to the war. There are other vessels on other fronts, all working
according to an intricate plan. 
LAFORGE: We're the lynchpin to the operation. If we don't destroy the
Central Command, the entire effort will fail. 
WORF: He's right, Captain. Our choice is clear. 
PICARD: Commander MacDuff, set a course for the Lysian Central Command.

[Corridor]

(using a PADD as a map) 
RIKER: These are your quarters. 
TROI: Thanks for your help. Come in for a minute?

[Troi's quarters]

RIKER: Recognise anything? 
TROI: It's like it belongs to someone else. Nothing feels right. This
room, this ship, most of all this war we're fighting. 
RIKER: I don't imagine war ever feels right. 
TROI: I suppose that's true. 
RIKER: What is it? 
TROI: That same feeling. You seem familiar. You're the only thing that
does. 
RIKER: Can you remember anything specific about us? 
TROI: I don't know. It's more like remembering an emotion. Feelings
that you're somehow associated with. 
RIKER: I hope they're good feelings. 
TROI: Yes, they are. This entire situation is a little unnerving. 
RIKER: It's been a long day. We've all been through a lot. 
TROI: We certainly have. 
(she gives him a peck on the cheek) 
RIKER: I'll see you tomorrow. Goodnight.

