RIKER MACDUFF LAFORGE WORF PICARD CRUSHER
kieran return thirty sit lucky increase accomplished victory need

[Bridge]

LAFORGE: What bothers me, Captain, is how specific
this damage is. Any records of a personal nature, any files that could
tell us about who we are, those are the ones that are gone. 
RIKER: It's a little too selective to be coincidence. 
CRUSHER: As selective as what was done to our own memories. Skills
still in place but personal knowledge is unavailable. 
MACDUFF: It is consistent with what we know about the new Lysian
weapon. 
PICARD: Doctor, is it absolutely necessary to see the medical files to
attempt treatment? 
CRUSHER: It would be dangerous to do it without them. 
RIKER: It's a risk I think we have to take. 
MACDUFF: He's right, Captain. I volunteer for the procedure.

[Sickbay]

(so MacDuff is on the biobed with a device over his
forehead) 
CRUSHER: That's strange. The diencephalic activity is exactly the same.
There should be some increase. Let's try broadening the bandwidth. Go
to thirty point one. Raise the frequency as well. Increase by thirty
three percent. 
(MacDuff starts jerking) 
CRUSHER: Something's wrong with the sequencing programme. 
(She disconnects him and wakes him up) 
CRUSHER: Kieran. Kieran. 
MACDUFF: I'm all right. I'm all right. What happened? 
CRUSHER: I don't know. Something went wrong with the sequence
initiator. We're lucky we didn't lose you. Did any of this work? Do you
remember anything more about yourself? 
MACDUFF: No. I'm sorry, Doctor. 
CRUSHER: Back to square one. 
(and a smug grin from MacDuff)

[Ready room]

PICARD: Come. 
MACDUFF: You wanted to see me, Captain? 
PICARD: Yes, Commander. Please, come in. Sit down. I find myself having
grave concerns about our mission. 
MACDUFF: Concerns as to its success? 
PICARD: No, no, no. More fundamental doubts. Whether or not it can be
justified. 
MACDUFF: I've been asking myself the same thing. I'm sure our superiors
feel their orders are justified. 
PICARD: Orders which we can't even verify. 
MACDUFF: Orders we can't ignore. 
PICARD: But I also can't ignore that we have greatly outclassed the
only enemy vessel we've encountered. And that every
single possible shred of information which might shed some light on
this situation has been conveniently eliminated. I feel as though I've
been handed a weapon, sent into a room and told to shoot a stranger.
Well, I need some moral context to justify that action, and I don't
have it. I'm not content simply to obey orders. I need to know that
what I am doing is right. 
MACDUFF: So do I. I'd feel a lot better about this if all the questions
were answered. And if you want to abandon our mission until our
memories return, that's your choice, but I must ask you. Is it right to
risk prolonging this war, to allow the needless deaths of thousands on
both sides, solely on the basis of our moral discomfort?

[MacDuff's quarters]

MACDUFF: Come. 
(Worf enters) 
MACDUFF: Lieutenant. 
WORF: You wished to see me, sir? 
MACDUFF: I did. Please. Memory or no, it seems clear that both you and
I were born for battle. More so than the others. 
WORF: I thought this as well. 
MACDUFF: It's conceivable that is the very reason that we've been
assigned to this vessel. The Enterprise has science officers, medical
specialists, engineers. Our Captain is undoubtedly an accomplished
diplomat. But we, we are the warriors. There are times for diplomacy.
This is not one of them. 
WORF: You're concerned about the Captain? 
MACDUFF: I am concerned about completing our mission, ending this war.
In victory. We may soon face a critical moment. The success of our
mission may hang on a split-second decision. A hesitation would kill us
all, and those that are counting on us will surely die as well. We
cannot let this happen. That'll be all. 
