RIKER MACDUFF CRUSHER LAFORGE WORF PICARD TROI RIKER + TROI RO DATA
term necessary restless hard construct specific memory central called

[Observation lounge]

WORF: The Lysian Central Command would have
received any transmission from the destroyer by now. 
MACDUFF: They're going to be on alert. 
RO: I recommend a randomly vectored approach to our target. It would be
our best chance of avoiding sort of any pursuit. 
PICARD: Agreed. Doctor, the success of this mission would be far more
likely if we could get our memories back. Is there anything you can do?

CRUSHER: I found several cases resembling our condition in the medical
index. The causes are different, but the cure is similar in each case. 
RIKER: Could the same treatment work for us? 
CRUSHER: That's my hope. It involves increasing the activity of the
medial temporal region of the brain, using short-term memory synapses
to retrieve long-term memory. 
PICARD: When can you start? 
CRUSHER: As soon as our medical files become available. It would be
dangerous to attempt treatment without them. 
PICARD: Mister La Forge? 
LAFORGE: Data and I ran into some trouble accessing the medical file
areas in the computer, but with a little time I'm pretty sure we'll be
able to get there. Three hours, maximum. 
PICARD: Proceed.

[Engineering]

LAFORGE: I don't get it. I'm still hitting a file
wall. 
DATA: There appears to be a command path discontinuity. I shall attempt
to rewrite the locator subroutine. 
LAFORGE: You must have been one hell of a bartender. It's too bad there
aren't any more of you around. We could certainly use the help. 
DATA: Yes. 
LAFORGE: I wonder why you're the only one on board? 
DATA: I have expended considerable thought with respect to my apparent
uniqueness among the crew. 
LAFORGE: Any conclusions? 
DATA: Several possibilities suggest themselves. I may represent an
entire race of artificial lifeforms. If so, there may be a home planet
for others of my kind. A shared history and a culture of which I am not
presently aware. 
LAFORGE: Then again, you could've been built just for this ship. 
DATA: I have considered that possibility as well. It may also be the
case that every starship in the Federation is equipped with an
artificial lifeform such as myself. 
LAFORGE: If that's true, maybe you all look alike. A standard issue
android. Hard to construct so only one allowed per vessel. 
DATA: There is another possibility. Perhaps my origin is unique. In
that case, I am alone. We have accessed the information storage area.
Considerable damage has been done to the files themselves. 
LAFORGE: The mission reports are gone. 
DATA: As well as the crew records, and the personal logs. 
LAFORGE: So are the medical records.

[Riker's quarters]

RIKER: Come in. 
TROI: I'm restless. Mind if I visit for a while? 
RIKER: Please. What's wrong? 
TROI: Everything. Every time I think about this war, our mission, I
feel a sense of panic like a hand's closing around my throat. 
RIKER: You're never going to feel good about this war. None of us will.
But we've got to complete our mission. I've been doing a little
research, trying to find out about William T Riker. 
TROI: What have you discovered? 
RIKER: He's a musician, for one thing. 
(plays a little on the trombone) 
TROI: Very impressive. 
RIKER: No one was more surprised than I. 
TROI: So what else has your research uncovered about William Riker? 
RIKER: He's athletically inclined, loves to climb mountain. He's from
somewhere called Alaska. He enjoys exotic food, and takes his vacations
on a planet called Risa. 
TROI: Ode to Psyche. John Keats. 
RIKER: Open it. 
TROI: To Will, all my love, Deanna. 
RIKER: That may explain some of the familiar feelings we have. 
TROI: I don't know what to think. 
(they lean in for a kiss and the doorbell chimes) 
RIKER: Come in. 
(Laren enters) 
RO: Hello, Counsellor. 
TROI: Ensign. 
RO: Am I interrupting anything? 
RIKER + TROI: No. 
TROI: I was just visiting. We'll talk again soon, Commander. 
RIKER: Of course. Thank you, Counsellor. 
RO: Bye. 
(Troi leaves) 
RO: And what was all of that about? 
RIKER: Oh, we were just discussing the situation we're all in. 
RO: Good. Because I have a feeling that I used to be the jealous type.

[Bridge]

LAFORGE: What bothers me, Captain, is how specific
this damage is. Any records of a personal nature, any files that could
tell us about who we are, those are the ones that are gone. 
RIKER: It's a little too selective to be coincidence. 
CRUSHER: As selective as what was done to our own memories. Skills
still in place but personal knowledge is unavailable. 
MACDUFF: It is consistent with what we know about the new Lysian
weapon. 
PICARD: Doctor, is it absolutely necessary to see the medical files to
attempt treatment? 
CRUSHER: It would be dangerous to do it without them. 
RIKER: It's a risk I think we have to take. 
MACDUFF: He's right, Captain. I volunteer for the procedure.

