TROI OBRIEN LAFORGE PICARD RIKER RO DATA

[Jefferies tube]

RO: Damn!

[Ten Forward]

DATA: (grabbing Picard by the throat) Tell them to
stop, or I kill everyone in this room, starting with you. 
PICARD: Picard to Bridge, abort immediately.

[Bridge]

RIKER: As you say, Captain. Riker to La Forge,
return to the Bridge.

[Jefferies tube]

[Ten Forward]

(The two balls of energy return to Troi and Miles) 
TROI: Are you ready to cooperate? 
PICARD: Yes. 
(Data lets him go) 
First officer's log, supplemental. The Enterprise
has moved into a synchronous orbit near the southern polar region. We
await further instructions from Ten Forward.

[Bridge]

RIKER: Any sign of the Essex? 
LAFORGE: Negative, Commander. Electromagnetic disturbances are even
worse here. Scanners can't read a thing. 
RIKER: Bridge to Ten Forward.

[Ten Forward]

RIKER: Intense storm activity over the southern
pole is making it virtually impossible for us to pick up any trace of
the Essex. 
TROI: We are giving you the exact coordinates of our remains on board
the wreck of the Essex. 
[Bridge]

LAFORGE: I'm receiving the coordinates now. 
RIKER: Can you tell what's there? 
LAFORGE: Just your basic ionic cyclone. I can't read a thing. 
RIKER: I'm sure as hell not going to beam up whatever might be down
there. 
LAFORGE: I've got a good excuse for you. The transporters aren't going
to work any better than the scanners. 
RIKER: Bridge to Ten Forward. 
[Ten Forward]

RIKER [OC]: Whatever's blocking our scanners will
prevent the use of the transporters. 
O'BRIEN: They're lying. 
PICARD: On the contrary, we've had a difficult time with transporters
since we arrived here. That's why we had to send down the shuttle. You
should all have been aware of that fact. 
DATA: We must be able to use the transporters. 
PICARD: Mister O'Brien was the one who safely executed the return of
the away team. He's the most qualified person on board to operate the
transporters under these circumstances. 
TROI: Can you do it from here? 
O'BRIEN: No. I'd have to use a transporter pad. 
PICARD: I could give you safe passage to a transporter pad in one of
the cargo bays. 
DATA: It's a trick. He is trying to divide us. 
TROI: We must not be separated. 
PICARD: I can give you all safe passage. 
DATA: Why are you suddenly being so helpful? 
PICARD: Because I assume that if you choose go to the cargo bay, then
you won't to take all of the hostages. Their safety is my chief
priority. 
TROI: What are the risks when we leave this room? 
DATA: Without the protection of the forcefields, we are completely
vulnerable. 
O'BRIEN: They could use the transporter against us. Once the forcefield
is down, they could beam us back to the surface. But there is a way to
neutralise that threat. Bridge, transfer all transporter functions to
Ten Forward. 
RIKER [OC]: In order to do that

