PICARD [OC] TROI RO TROI [OC] PICARD RIKER CRUSHER DATA LAFORGE
compared suggest accurate attention priority patterns detect inverter net

[Bridge]

PICARD: Move it where? 
TROI [OC]: You will 
[Ten Forward]

TROI: Change the ship's orbit to an inclination of
eighty degrees south. 
[Bridge]

RIKER: The southern polar region. That's where Data
tried to move the ship. 
PICARD: And that's what Troi asked me to do. But why? Ten Forward, if
you could be more specific about our intended destination 
[Tem Forward]

PICARD [OC]: Perhaps we could 
TROI [OC]: You have thirty seconds to change your heading or additional
members of your crew will require medical attention. 
[Bridge]

PICARD: We need to stabilise this situation. Play
for time. I suggest we move the ship as they've asked. Agreed? Set a
new heading, but take us there as slowly as you can. Ten Forward, we
are moving the ship as you requested.

[Ten Forward]

DATA: He's telling the truth. Their heading has
changed. 
[Bridge]

CRUSHER: Captain, I've compared the away team's
last transporter trace patterns to their earlier records. They're
exactly the same, except in Troi, Data and O'Brien there's an unusual
synaptic activity. Some kind of anionic energy. It may be another
lifeform superimposing its neural patterns on our people. 
RIKER: Why wasn't I affected? 
CRUSHER: I don't know. The only difference between you and the others
was that you were injured. 
RIKER: My broken arm. 
CRUSHER: The fracture caused pain receptors to fire, which may have
made you immune to this energy. 
PICARD: If your theory is accurate, Doctor, what would happen if we
were to inflict pain on the others? 
CRUSHER: It might force whatever it is out of our people. 
RO: A plasma shock. It would be painful but it wouldn't cause any
physical harm. 
LAFORGE: I could hook up a modified laser scanner to a plasma inverter.

RIKER: What about Data? 
LAFORGE: Well, a plasma shock would definitely overload his neural net.
It'll work on him too. 
RIKER: We have to find a way to penetrate the forcefield around Ten
Forward. 
LAFORGE: I might be able to interrupt the forcefield for a few seconds,
but I'll be fighting the computer for control. Timing would be
critical. 
RO: We'd have to hit all three with a single discharge. If they're
standing together, it shouldn't be a problem. 
PICARD: How will you gain access? 
LAFORGE: A micro-optic drill through the ceiling. They'll never detect
it. 
CRUSHER: If this is going to work, we have to have some way to contain
or neutralise this anionic energy once it's out of our people. 
PICARD: Yes, Doctor. That will be your top priority. Very well,
proceed. Bridge to Ten Forward. Now that we are moving the ship as you
requested, I would like to know the nature of the injuries to the
members of my crew.

