PICARD [OC] TROI LAFORGE RIKER [OC] RIKER O'BRIEN PICARD DATA
basic controls aware leave let choose way got impossible

[Ten Forward]

RIKER: Intense storm activity over the southern
pole is making it virtually impossible for us to pick up any trace of
the Essex. 
TROI: We are giving you the exact coordinates of our remains on board
the wreck of the Essex. 
[Bridge]

LAFORGE: I'm receiving the coordinates now. 
RIKER: Can you tell what's there? 
LAFORGE: Just your basic ionic cyclone. I can't read a thing. 
RIKER: I'm sure as hell not going to beam up whatever might be down
there. 
LAFORGE: I've got a good excuse for you. The transporters aren't going
to work any better than the scanners. 
RIKER: Bridge to Ten Forward. 
[Ten Forward]

RIKER [OC]: Whatever's blocking our scanners will
prevent the use of the transporters. 
O'BRIEN: They're lying. 
PICARD: On the contrary, we've had a difficult time with transporters
since we arrived here. That's why we had to send down the shuttle. You
should all have been aware of that fact. 
DATA: We must be able to use the transporters. 
PICARD: Mister O'Brien was the one who safely executed the return of
the away team. He's the most qualified person on board to operate the
transporters under these circumstances. 
TROI: Can you do it from here? 
O'BRIEN: No. I'd have to use a transporter pad. 
PICARD: I could give you safe passage to a transporter pad in one of
the cargo bays. 
DATA: It's a trick. He is trying to divide us. 
TROI: We must not be separated. 
PICARD: I can give you all safe passage. 
DATA: Why are you suddenly being so helpful? 
PICARD: Because I assume that if you choose go to the cargo bay, then
you won't to take all of the hostages. Their safety is my chief
priority. 
TROI: What are the risks when we leave this room? 
DATA: Without the protection of the forcefields, we are completely
vulnerable. 
O'BRIEN: They could use the transporter against us. Once the forcefield
is down, they could beam us back to the surface. But there is a way to
neutralise that threat. Bridge, transfer all transporter functions to
Ten Forward. 
RIKER [OC]: In order to do that

[Bridge]

RIKER: You will have to release your computer
control lockouts. 
[Ten Forward]

O'BRIEN: That's not true. 
PICARD: Let me talk to him. Number One, I think we have an opportunity
to end this siege. 
[Bridge]

PICARD [OC]: It will require the cooperation of all
concerned. 
[Ten Forward]

PICARD: Our guests will be moving shortly to cargo
bay four, where the transport will occur. I want you to ensure them of
safe passage between Ten Forward to the cargo bay. 
[Bridge]

RIKER: Understood, Captain. Doctor. Mister La
Forge. 
LAFORGE: Yes, sir. 
[Ten Forward]

O'BRIEN: Transporter controls are being
transferred. Ten Forward to Bridge. I said all transporter controls.
Including those aboard all your shuttlecraft.

