RIKER OBRIEN PICARD TROI RO DATA

[Turbolift]

RIKER: No, but if Troi was right, we were very
close to it. 
PICARD: Bridge. How do you suggest we proceed? 
RIKER: We need to adjust the scanners so they can penetrate those
storms. Do you have any ideas, Data? 
DATA: We might be able to employ virtual imaging to interpolate
(metallic sound) missing data. 
PICARD: Is something wrong, Commander?

DATA: My apologies. It seems my primary speech processors are
experiencing a minor fluctuation. I will have it corrected in a moment.

[Bridge]

TROI: Captain, may I speak with you a moment in
private? 
PICARD: Of course. You have the Bridge, Number One. 
RIKER: Mister Data, deploy sensor scans when you're ready. Ensign, take
us to a synchronous orbit aligned around our crash site. 
(Picard and Troi leave) 
RO: Aye, sir. 
DATA: Sir, given the EM field properties of this moon, I recommend a
search pattern beginning in the southern polar region. 
RIKER: The polar region? That would be starting from scratch, Mister
Data. Our latest
readings would suggest that we begin our scan around our crash site. 
DATA: The Essex signal was never clearly located, sir. A systematic
survey of the moon from a polar orbit might be more practical. 
RIKER: Well, you might be right, but I'd like to give the crash site a
once over first. Maintain our current orbit. 
DATA: Understood, sir.

[Ready room]

TROI: I've never felt anything like it. It was as
though they were calling to me. 
PICARD: Are you saying someone was communicating telepathically? 
TROI: Perhaps, for an instant. It was like their voices were being
carried on the wind. 
PICARD: What were they trying to communicate? 
TROI: I'm not sure, but they were calling me to the southern polar
region. I believe that's where we should look for the Essex. 
[Bridge]

RO: Commander, did you override my orbital heading?

RIKER: Override them? 
RO: We've moved into a polar orbit and I'm locked out. The helm isn't
responding. 
RIKER: Do you know anything about this, Mister Data? Data? 
(Riker touches Data's shoulder, and Data thumps him in the chest) 
RIKER: Security to the Bridge! 
(O'Brien disarms Worf and pushes him over the railing and the Captain's
chair. Ro shoots at O'Brien but misses, so he shoots her) 
RIKER: Computer, transfer command to Engineering. Full security alert! 
(O'Brien shoots Riker. Data fails to override Riker's last command and
thumps the blank console in frustration) 
(In the Ready room, Troi knocks out Picard, then enters the Bridge) 
O'BRIEN: This way! 
TROI: What happened? 
DATA: He would not move to a polar orbit. 
TROI: You couldn't wait? The Captain would have done it for me. 
[Turbolift]

O'BRIEN: Deck thirty six. Engineering.

