PICARD [OC] TROI CRUSHER LAFORGE WORF PICARD RIKER RO DATA TROI [OC]
phaser accompany emergency receptors patterns computer force problem order

[Bridge]

CRUSHER: Captain, I've compared the away team's
last transporter trace patterns to their earlier records. They're
exactly the same, except in Troi, Data and O'Brien there's an unusual
synaptic activity. Some kind of anionic energy. It may be another
lifeform superimposing its neural patterns on our people. 
RIKER: Why wasn't I affected? 
CRUSHER: I don't know. The only difference between you and the others
was that you were injured. 
RIKER: My broken arm. 
CRUSHER: The fracture caused pain receptors to fire, which may have
made you immune to this energy. 
PICARD: If your theory is accurate, Doctor, what would happen if we
were to inflict pain on the others? 
CRUSHER: It might force whatever it is out of our people. 
RO: A plasma shock. It would be painful but it wouldn't cause any
physical harm. 
LAFORGE: I could hook up a modified laser scanner to a plasma inverter.

RIKER: What about Data? 
LAFORGE: Well, a plasma shock would definitely overload his neural net.
It'll work on him too. 
RIKER: We have to find a way to penetrate the forcefield around Ten
Forward. 
LAFORGE: I might be able to interrupt the forcefield for a few seconds,
but I'll be fighting the computer for control. Timing would be
critical. 
RO: We'd have to hit all three with a single discharge. If they're
standing together, it shouldn't be a problem. 
PICARD: How will you gain access? 
LAFORGE: A micro-optic drill through the ceiling. They'll never detect
it. 
CRUSHER: If this is going to work, we have to have some way to contain
or neutralise this anionic energy once it's out of our people. 
PICARD: Yes, Doctor. That will be your top priority. Very well,
proceed. Bridge to Ten Forward. Now that we are moving the ship as you
requested, I would like to know the nature of the injuries to the
members of my crew.

[Ten Forward]

TROI: Five of your people have been injured. 
PICARD [OC]: How serious is their condition? 
TROI: You, Klingon, tell him. 
WORF: Captain, one person has suffered what looks like a level-five
phaser hit, and four others have secondary burns. They require medical
attention. And our captors are not affected by phaser stun settings. 
DATA: Silence, Klingon. 
[Bridge]

PICARD: Ten Forward, you must release these people
so that they can receive proper medical attention. 
[Ten Forward]

TROI: I will release no one.

[Bridge]

PICARD: If you will release them, I will take their
place.

[Ten Forward]

DATA: I don't trust him. It may be a deception. 
TROI: The crew values Picard's life above all others. Captain Picard,
we agree to your proposal.

[Bridge]

PICARD: Expect a medical team to accompany me. 
TROI [OC]: Acknowledged. 
PICARD: Sickbay, this is Picard. Have an emergency medical team meet me
outside Ten Forward. 
RIKER: Sir, putting you down there only strengthens their position. 
PICARD: Number One, so long as they're on board this ship, I'm a
hostage no matter where I am. We all are. I must find out who we're
dealing with. If La Forge and Ro can attempt a rescue in short order,
then let them proceed. If they can't, I will provide you with another
opportunity. Watch for it. 
RIKER: Yes, sir. 
