RO TROI OBRIEN LAFORGE KEIKO PICARD RIKER CRUSHER DATA

[Bridge]

PICARD: Ten Forward, you must release these people
so that they can receive proper medical attention. 
[Ten Forward]

TROI: I will release no one.

[Bridge]

PICARD: If you will release them, I will take their
place.

[Ten Forward]

DATA: I don't trust him. It may be a deception. 
TROI: The crew values Picard's life above all others. Captain Picard,
we agree to your proposal.

[Bridge]

PICARD: Expect a medical team to accompany me. 
TROI [OC]: Acknowledged. 
PICARD: Sickbay, this is Picard. Have an emergency medical team meet me
outside Ten Forward. 
RIKER: Sir, putting you down there only strengthens their position. 
PICARD: Number One, so long as they're on board this ship, I'm a
hostage no matter where I am. We all are. I must find out who we're
dealing with. If La Forge and Ro can attempt a rescue in short order,
then let them proceed. If they can't, I will provide you with another
opportunity. Watch for it. 
RIKER: Yes, sir. 
[Ten Forward]

(Molly is still upset) 
DATA: Silence that child! 
O'BRIEN: I know you. I know who you are. And I know who this is. 
KEIKO: She's frightened. Why don't you just let us go? 
O'BRIEN: No. Make it stop. 
PICARD [OC]: Ten Forward, we're outside the door. 
TROI: Lower the force field. 
(O'Brien does, and Data takes Picard's comm. badge) 
TROI: Welcome, Captain. Allow me to introduce myself. I am Captain
Bryce Shumar, of the Federation Starship Essex. 
PICARD: The Starship Essex vanished over two hundred years ago. 
TROI: Indeed. I know, I was there. This is my First Officer Commander
Steven Mullen (Data), and my Security Chief, Lieutenant Morgan Kelly.
(Miles) 
PICARD: And you have survived all this time as? 
TROI: Spirits? Ghosts? But you're a man who would never believe in
ghosts, Picard. Isn't that true? You see, Troi knows you. And so I do
as well. 
PICARD: Then Counsellor Troi is still alive? 
TROI: Yes, of course she is. I have no wish to harm her or to harm
anyone else. 
PICARD: I'm very pleased to hear that. 
TROI: We have been forced to take this action, Captain, because we need
your help. 
PICARD: My help? 
TROI: Our consciousness has been trapped on this moon for two
centuries. We must escape this torture. 
PICARD: How did this happen to you? 
TROI: I can't explain how it happened. I only know that it did. The
Essex was caught in an electromagnetic storm just as your shuttle was.
Moments before we crashed, the bridge was struck by lightning. The ship
was ripped apart. Somehow, in that instant, our consciousness was
absorbed in the magnetic currents on the surface. 
PICARD: Why didn't you tell us this? Why the deception? The violence? 
(The medical team take the injured out of the room) 
TROI: Because as I said, I knew you would not believe us. Even now, I
know you don't. 
PICARD: What was your vessel's designation and its complement? 
TROI: NCC One seven three. Daedalus-class starship. Crew, two hundred
and twenty nine. 
PICARD: Under whose command in this sector? 
TROI: Admiral Uttan Narsu, Starbase Twelve. You will find all this in
Starfleet records. 
PICARD: I don't need to see the records. 
TROI: Then you know I am correct. 
PICARD: End this, and I will give you whatever help you need. 
TROI: No. You don't trust us. And I can't risk trusting you. 
DATA: It is taking too long. We should have been there by now. He is
manipulating you. 
TROI: Captain Picard has every right to be curious. 
DATA: He will try to delay until a rescue attempt is possible. 
TROI: I know that. I also know that he will make every effort to
protect the lives of his people. Since our demands are not excessive,
Captain, I hope you will see that it will be simpler to accede than to
risk further injuries. 
PICARD: What do you want? 
TROI: All you need to know for now is that we want to rest. Simply,
finally, to rest.

[Jefferies tube]

(Geordi and Ro are pushing some equipment in front
of them) 
LAFORGE: Section two B, A, section one. 
RO: Finally. I never want to see this part of the Enterprise again. 
LAFORGE: I hear you. This is what starship designers call easy access.
Yeah, yeah, this is it. I thought we might have a problem with conduit
number two twenty seven but it looks like we're going to be able to get
by it. 
(They remove deck grills and he hands Ro a small device) 
RO: Thanks. 
(She cuts through circuitry) 
RO: We're through. 
LAFORGE: Good. Let's hook up the scanner and see what we've got. 
(She places the big device over her tiny hole and looks at the scene
below on a monitor) 
RO: Got it. All three have got to be in the circle if this is going to
work. 
LAFORGE: We're halfway home. La Forge to Crusher. How're you doing? 
CRUSHER [OC]: I think I've come up with an idea for a containment
field. 
