PICARD [OC] RIKER CRUSHER RUSSELL WORF
body neurological cpk dna picard lieutenant want served organs

[Worf's private room]

(lots of flashing lights on a bank of monitors) 
RIKER: You look pretty good for someone who's been eating sickbay food
for three days. 
WORF: Please, sit down, Commander. Thank you for agreeing to see me in
this condition. 
RIKER: I'm not a Klingon. I don't think there's any shame in someone
being injured. 
WORF: I am not merely injured, Commander. Doctor Crusher believes my
paralysis to be permanent. 
RIKER: I'm sorry. 
WORF: I have a personal favour to ask. 
RIKER: Name it. 
WORF: I want you to assist me in performing the Hegh'bat ceremony. I
want you to help me die. 
RIKER: What? 
WORF: When a Klingon can no longer stand and face his enemies as a
warrior, when he becomes a burden to his friends and family, it is time
for the Hegh'bat. Time for him to die. 
RIKER: There must be other options. 
WORF: No, there are not. I will not live as an object of pity or shame.
My life as a Klingon is over. 
RIKER: Mister Worf, I will not help a friend commit suicide. 
WORF: You and I have served together for many years. Fought side by
side I know you to be a brave and honourable man. If you truly
consider me a friend, help me now. Help me end my life as I have lived
it, with dignity and honour. Please.

[Medical lab]

CRUSHER: The cortical spinal tract has continued to
deteriorate over the last seventy two hours despite CPK enzymatic
therapy. 
RUSSELL: What about alkysine treatment? 
CRUSHER: Ineffective. 
RUSSELL: Overdesigned. Klingon anatomy. Twenty three ribs, two livers,
eight-chambered heart, double-lined neural pia mater. I've never seen
so many unnecessary redundancies in one body. 
CRUSHER: Unnecessary? The Klingons refer to it as the brak'lul. Almost
every vital function in their bodies has a built-in redundancy in case
any primary organ or system fails. 
RUSSELL: It's a good design in theory, but in practice, all the extra
organs means just that much more that can go wrong. Let me show you
something. I've been experimenting with DNA based generators. This is a
genetronic replicator. It reads the DNA coding of damaged organs,
translates that into a specific set of replicant instructions and then
begins to grow a replacement. 
CRUSHER: I've read of some of the preliminary work you've done. 
RUSSELL: The early results have been very encouraging. Beverly, the
genetronic replicator can create a completely new neural conduit for
your Lieutenant Worf. 
CRUSHER: Replace his entire spinal column? 
RUSSELL: Exactly. Instead of splicing and pasting together broken
connections like a couple of glorified tailors, we create a new living
system. 
CRUSHER: I had no idea you were already using this on humanoids. 
RUSSELL: I haven't been. This'll be the first time. 
CRUSHER: First time? 
RUSSELL: I've done dozens of holosimulations. The success rate is up to
thirty seven percent. 
CRUSHER: Even a holographic patient would balk at those odds. 
RUSSELL: Sooner or later, it has to be tried on a living patient. 
CRUSHER: You're talking about a spinal column. Even before we could
replace it, we have to remove the existing one, and we don't know
enough about Klingon neurological medicine to re-attach it. If
something goes wrong, he'll die. I agree it has remarkable potential,
but you're still in the most preliminary stages of research. No, I'm
afraid I can't justify the risk to Worf. We'll have to do with more
conventional approaches. 
RUSSELL: You're probably right. It's too radical an approach. 
PICARD [OC]: Doctor Crusher, please report to the Bridge. 
CRUSHER: On my way.

