PICARD RIKER TROI ALEXANDER

[Ready room]

RIKER: I have always tried to keep an open mind,
not to judge someone else's culture by my own, but for me to be a part
of this ceremony. 
PICARD: I understand from Doctor Crusher that Worf will never regain
the use of his legs. 
RIKER: That doesn't mean his life is over. 
PICARD: That's a very human perspective, Will. For a Klingon in Worf's
position, his life is over. 
RIKER: I can't accept that. 
PICARD: Will, if you were dying, if you were terminally ill with an
incurable disease and facing the remaining few days of your life in
pain, wouldn't you come to look on death as a release? 
RIKER: Worf isn't dying and he is not in pain. He could live a long
life 
PICARD: You or I could learn to live with that disability, but not
Worf. His life ended when those containers fell on him. We don't have
to agree with it, we don't have to understand it, but we do have to
respect his beliefs. 
RIKER: I can respect his beliefs, but he is asking me to take an active
role in his committing suicide. 
PICARD: He's asking for your help because you're his friend. That means
that you're going to have to make your decision based on that
friendship. 
RIKER: Which leaves me back where I started. 
PICARD: Will. Look, I'm sorry, I cannot help you to make this decision,
but I can tell you this. Klingons choose their friends with great care.
If he didn't know he could count on you, he never would have asked.

[Troi's quarters]

ALEXANDER: Why won't you let me see him? 
TROI: Alexander, I told you it's not my decision. Your father doesn't
want to 
ALEXANDER: I don't believe you. My father wants to see me. You're the
one keeping me away from him! 
TROI: I think you know that's not true. 
ALEXANDER: Then why can't I see him? 
TROI: Come here. He's been injured, and he's embarrassed. And to have
anyone see him now would make him feel worse, even if it were you. 
ALEXANDER: This is part of that Klingon stuff, isn't it. My mother
always said that Klingons had a lot of dumb ideas about honour. 
TROI: Alexander, that Klingon stuff is very important to your father. 
ALEXANDER: Well, it isn't very important to me. I don't care about
being Klingon, I just want to see my father. 
TROI: It's been a long day. Why don't you get ready for bed and we'll
talk about this again in the morning.

