TROI RUSSELL WORF PICARD MEDIC RIKER OGAWA CRUSHER ALEXANDER
guest welcome results hours excuse place mode time accepting

[Shuttlebay]

(an emergency triage ward with a big notice about
variable gravity area on the wall) 
CRUSHER: Use this to cauterise the tissue. 
MEDIC: Yes, Doctor.
CRUSHER: What happened here? 
RUSSELL: He went into neural metaphasic shock. 
CRUSHER: From leporazine? That's unusual. 
RUSSELL: He couldn't take leporazine, his blood pressure was too low. I
had to try a different
treatment. 
CRUSHER: A morathial series? 
RUSSELL: No. I tried a new rybo-therapy I've been working with. It's
called borathium. I've had some very good results. 
CRUSHER: You used this man to test one of your theories? 
RUSSELL: Borathium is decades ahead of leporazine and morathial. 
CRUSHER: Morathial would have saved his life. 
RUSSELL: His injuries were so severe I don't think any conventional
treatment could've saved him. 
CRUSHER: The point is, you didn't even try standard treatments. 
RUSSELL: I made the choice I thought gave him the best chance of
surviving. Isn't that what you would have done? 
CRUSHER: I think you used this situation in order to test one of your
theories just like you're trying to do with Worf. 
RUSSELL: That's what this is really about, isn't it? Lieutenant Worf.
I'm offering him a chance to recover fully. A chance you can't give
him. 
CRUSHER: What this is about is the kind of medicine you seem to
practice. 
RUSSELL: I make no excuses for my approach to medicine. I don't like
losing a patient any more than you do. But I'm looking down a long
road, Doctor. This man didn't die for nothing. The data that I gathered
is invaluable. It will eventually help save thousands of lives. 
CRUSHER: I doubt if that will be any comfort his family. 
RUSSELL: Let me ask you this. If some years from now, borathium therapy
were to save the life of someone you loved, would you still condemn me?

CRUSHER: I will not be drawn into a hypothetical argument, Doctor. Your
research on this ship is over. You're relieved of all medical duties
until further notice. Is that clear? 
RUSSELL: Perfectly.

[Crusher's office]

PICARD: Doctor? I'm on my way to look in on your
patient. 
CRUSHER: Be my guest. Just don't expect a lot of conversation. He's in
full Klingon mode. Honourable, strong and closed minded. 
PICARD: I understand that you've relieved Doctor Russell of duty. 
CRUSHER: That's right. She's irresponsible. I won't have her practicing
medicine on this ship. 
PICARD: Beverly, maybe you should consider letting her go ahead with
this genetronic procedure. 
CRUSHER: How can you say that? She has a theory, based on a little
empirical knowledge and a lot of supposition. 
PICARD: If he can't make a full recovery, Worf will to kill himself. 
CRUSHER: Not in my Sickbay, he won't. I'll put him in a restraining
field and post security around his door before I let him commit
suicide. 
PICARD: And how long will you keep him there? A week? A month? A year? 
CRUSHER: If I have to. Suicide is not an option. Putting aside for a
moment the fact that a paraplegic can live a very full life, there is
also a conventional therapy that could restore much of his mobility. 
PICARD: But not all of it. 
CRUSHER: No, not all of it! There are some things I can't fix. Klingon
or no, he is going to have to accept his condition. 
PICARD: Beverly, he can't make the journey you're asking of him. You
want him to go from contemplating suicide to accepting
his condition and living with the disability, but it's too far. The
road between covers a lifetime of values, beliefs. He can't do it,
Beverly. But perhaps he can come part of the way. Maybe he can be
persuaded to forgo the ritual in order to take the chance at regaining
the kind of life he needs. A Klingon may not be good at accepting
defeat, but he knows all about taking risks. 
CRUSHER: The first tenet of good medicine is never make the patient any
worse. Right now, Worf is alive and functioning. If he goes into that
operation, he could come out a corpse. 
PICARD: This may not be good medicine, but for Worf, it may be his only
choice.

[Worf's private room]

(Riker enters carrying a robe and a knife) 
WORF: I am ready, Commander. 
RIKER: I've been studying this ritual of yours. Do you know what I've
decided? I think it's despicable. I hate everything about it. The
casual disregard for life, the way it tries to cloak suicide in some
glorious notion of honour. I may have to respect your beliefs, but I
don't have to like them. 
WORF: It is not something I expect you to understand. 
RIKER: No. All you really expect me to do is bring you the knife and
then walk away, so you can kill yourself in peace. Well, I'm not going
to make it that easy for you. 
WORF: It is not easy for me. But each of us must die in our own time,
and my time 
RIKER: Remember Sandoval? Hit by a disruptor blast two years ago. She
lived for about a week. Fang-lee? Marla Aster? Tasha Yar? How many men
and women, how many friends have we watched die? I've lost count. Every
one of them, every single one fought for life until the very end. 
WORF: I do not welcome death, Commander. 
RIKER: Are you sure? Because I get the sense you're feeling pretty
noble about the whole thing. Look at me, aren't I courageous? Aren't I
an honourable Klingon? Let me remind you of something. A Klingon does
not put his desires above those of his family or his friends. How many
people on this ship consider you a friend? How many owe you their
lives? Have you ever thought about how you've affected the people
around you? How we might feel about your dying? 
WORF: Will you, or will you not, help me with the Hegh'bat? 
RIKER: You are my friend, and in spite of everything I've said, if it
were my place, I would probably help you. But I've been studying
Klingon ritual and Klingon law, and I've discovered that it's not my
place to fill that role. According to tradition, that honour falls to a
family member. Preferably the oldest son. 
WORF: That is impossible. He is a child. 
RIKER: The son of a Klingon is a man the day he can first hold a blade.
True? 
WORF: Alexander is not fully Klingon he is part human. 
RIKER: That's an excuse. What you really mean is it would be too hard
for you to look at your son and tell him to bring you the knife. Watch
you stab it into your heart, then pull the knife from your chest and
wipe your blood on his sleeve. That's the rite of death, isn't it?
Well, I'm sorry, Mister Worf. I can't help you. There's only one person
on this ship who can. 
(Later, Alexander enters) 
ALEXANDER: You said you wanted to see me? 
WORF: I need you to help me. 
ALEXANDER: Anything, Father. 
WORF: I have taught you about Klingon customs, the beliefs which we
value. According to tradition, I must take my life after suffering this
kind of injury. But I have decided to break with tradition. I have
decided to live. 
ALEXANDER: I'm glad, Father. 
WORF: I must still undergo a dangerous operation. I may still die, but
it will not be by my own hand. Return this to our quarters. 
ALEXANDER: Yes, sir. 
(Alexander takes the knife away)

Chief Medical Officer's log, supplemental. After
further consultation with Starfleet Medical, and a great deal of soul
searching, I have reluctantly granted Lieutenant Worf's request to
undergo the genetronic procedure.

[Worf's private room]

ALEXANDER: We started doing multiplications today.
The teacher said I'm faster than anybody else in my class. 
(Alyssa enters) 
WORF: We will speak again soon. 
ALEXANDER: Yes, Father. 
(Alexander leaves) 
WORF: If I die, he must be cared for. 
TROI: I'll make sure he reaches your parents' home safely. 
WORF: No. They are elderly. They cannot care for Alexander. Counsellor,
I have a serious request to make of you. Would you consider? 
TROI: You want me to raise Alexander? 
WORF: I have come to have a great respect for you, Deanna. You have
been most helpful in guiding me since Alexander's arrival. I can't
imagine anyone who would be a better parent to my son. If it is too
much to ask. 
TROI: I'd be honoured. 
(Troi leaves) 
WORF: I am ready.

[Operating theatre]

(Worf is face down. Alyssa is the scrub nurse) 
RUSSELL: Focus the drechtal beams on the anterior and posterior spinal
roots. 
CRUSHER: Focused. 
RUSSELL: Initiate. 
CRUSHER: All neural connections below the first cervical vertebrae have
been separated. 
RUSSELL: Microtome. I'm severing the brain stem now. 
OGAWA: Cerebral cortex placed on life support at zero eight thirty one
hours. Three hours twenty six minutes remaining until onset of primary
brain dysfunction. 
RUSSELL: Okay, let's remove the support frame. 
CRUSHER: Exoscalpel.

