RIKER CRUSHER RUSSELL WORF
warrior room want hard maintain burden border injuries best

[Corridor]

RUSSELL: Your ideas on bio-active interfaces border
on revolutionary. It's going to be a genuine pleasure working with you.

CRUSHER: Thank you. Have you had a chance to review Worf's case history
yet? 
RUSSELL: Only briefly. I must admit, I was a little shocked to find the
state of Klingon neurological medicine to be so primitive. 
CRUSHER: It's a cultural bias. When I contacted the Klingon Medical
Division, they informed me that they usually let the patient die in a
case like this. As a result they've done almost no research on
neurological trauma. 
RUSSELL: We'll be in uncharted waters. 
CRUSHER: Worf is having a hard time dealing with his injuries. He's
always been a difficult patient, but now. He's a little tough at first,
but I'm sure you'll get to like him after you get to 
RUSSELL: Doctor, I know that as a starship doctor, you have to maintain
close ties with patients, but I think it would be best if I maintain a
discreet distance. That way, I can give you a completely objective
opinion regarding treatment. 
CRUSHER: Yes. You're probably right. 
RUSSELL: Good. Well, I believe you said I'll be working in medlab four?

CRUSHER: Right. This way.

[Worf's private room]

(lots of flashing lights on a bank of monitors) 
RIKER: You look pretty good for someone who's been eating sickbay food
for three days. 
WORF: Please, sit down, Commander. Thank you for agreeing to see me in
this condition. 
RIKER: I'm not a Klingon. I don't think there's any shame in someone
being injured. 
WORF: I am not merely injured, Commander. Doctor Crusher believes my
paralysis to be permanent. 
RIKER: I'm sorry. 
WORF: I have a personal favour to ask. 
RIKER: Name it. 
WORF: I want you to assist me in performing the Hegh'bat ceremony. I
want you to help me die. 
RIKER: What? 
WORF: When a Klingon can no longer stand and face his enemies as a
warrior, when he becomes a burden to his friends and family, it is time
for the Hegh'bat. Time for him to die. 
RIKER: There must be other options. 
WORF: No, there are not. I will not live as an object of pity or shame.
My life as a Klingon is over. 
RIKER: Mister Worf, I will not help a friend commit suicide. 
WORF: You and I have served together for many years. Fought side by
side I know you to be a brave and honourable man. If you truly
consider me a friend, help me now. Help me end my life as I have lived
it, with dignity and honour. Please.

