TROI RUSSELL WORF PICARD RIKER OGAWA CRUSHER ALEXANDER

[Worf's private room]

(Riker enters carrying a robe and a knife) 
WORF: I am ready, Commander. 
RIKER: I've been studying this ritual of yours. Do you know what I've
decided? I think it's despicable. I hate everything about it. The
casual disregard for life, the way it tries to cloak suicide in some
glorious notion of honour. I may have to respect your beliefs, but I
don't have to like them. 
WORF: It is not something I expect you to understand. 
RIKER: No. All you really expect me to do is bring you the knife and
then walk away, so you can kill yourself in peace. Well, I'm not going
to make it that easy for you. 
WORF: It is not easy for me. But each of us must die in our own time,
and my time 
RIKER: Remember Sandoval? Hit by a disruptor blast two years ago. She
lived for about a week. Fang-lee? Marla Aster? Tasha Yar? How many men
and women, how many friends have we watched die? I've lost count. Every
one of them, every single one fought for life until the very end. 
WORF: I do not welcome death, Commander. 
RIKER: Are you sure? Because I get the sense you're feeling pretty
noble about the whole thing. Look at me, aren't I courageous? Aren't I
an honourable Klingon? Let me remind you of something. A Klingon does
not put his desires above those of his family or his friends. How many
people on this ship consider you a friend? How many owe you their
lives? Have you ever thought about how you've affected the people
around you? How we might feel about your dying? 
WORF: Will you, or will you not, help me with the Hegh'bat? 
RIKER: You are my friend, and in spite of everything I've said, if it
were my place, I would probably help you. But I've been studying
Klingon ritual and Klingon law, and I've discovered that it's not my
place to fill that role. According to tradition, that honour falls to a
family member. Preferably the oldest son. 
WORF: That is impossible. He is a child. 
RIKER: The son of a Klingon is a man the day he can first hold a blade.
True? 
WORF: Alexander is not fully Klingon he is part human. 
RIKER: That's an excuse. What you really mean is it would be too hard
for you to look at your son and tell him to bring you the knife. Watch
you stab it into your heart, then pull the knife from your chest and
wipe your blood on his sleeve. That's the rite of death, isn't it?
Well, I'm sorry, Mister Worf. I can't help you. There's only one person
on this ship who can. 
(Later, Alexander enters) 
ALEXANDER: You said you wanted to see me? 
WORF: I need you to help me. 
ALEXANDER: Anything, Father. 
WORF: I have taught you about Klingon customs, the beliefs which we
value. According to tradition, I must take my life after suffering this
kind of injury. But I have decided to break with tradition. I have
decided to live. 
ALEXANDER: I'm glad, Father. 
WORF: I must still undergo a dangerous operation. I may still die, but
it will not be by my own hand. Return this to our quarters. 
ALEXANDER: Yes, sir. 
(Alexander takes the knife away)

Chief Medical Officer's log, supplemental. After
further consultation with Starfleet Medical, and a great deal of soul
searching, I have reluctantly granted Lieutenant Worf's request to
undergo the genetronic procedure.

[Worf's private room]

ALEXANDER: We started doing multiplications today.
The teacher said I'm faster than anybody else in my class. 
(Alyssa enters) 
WORF: We will speak again soon. 
ALEXANDER: Yes, Father. 
(Alexander leaves) 
WORF: If I die, he must be cared for. 
TROI: I'll make sure he reaches your parents' home safely. 
WORF: No. They are elderly. They cannot care for Alexander. Counsellor,
I have a serious request to make of you. Would you consider? 
TROI: You want me to raise Alexander? 
WORF: I have come to have a great respect for you, Deanna. You have
been most helpful in guiding me since Alexander's arrival. I can't
imagine anyone who would be a better parent to my son. If it is too
much to ask. 
TROI: I'd be honoured. 
(Troi leaves) 
WORF: I am ready.

[Operating theatre]

(Worf is face down. Alyssa is the scrub nurse) 
RUSSELL: Focus the drechtal beams on the anterior and posterior spinal
roots. 
CRUSHER: Focused. 
RUSSELL: Initiate. 
CRUSHER: All neural connections below the first cervical vertebrae have
been separated. 
RUSSELL: Microtome. I'm severing the brain stem now. 
OGAWA: Cerebral cortex placed on life support at zero eight thirty one
hours. Three hours twenty six minutes remaining until onset of primary
brain dysfunction. 
RUSSELL: Okay, let's remove the support frame. 
CRUSHER: Exoscalpel.

[Ready room]

RIKER: I've notified Starfleet that our survey of
sector three seven six two eight will be delayed at least a week while
we drop off survivors from the Denver. 
PICARD: Good. I understand from Mister La Forge there's a minor
fluctuation in the starboard warp coil. 
RIKER: I've scheduled a stress simulation routine for this afternoon to
check it out. Has there been any word? 
PICARD: No.

[Operating theatre]

(Worf's new spinal cord is in a plastic box) 
CRUSHER: Preliminary genetronic scans are complete. 
RUSSELL: Initiating DNA sequencer. 
CRUSHER: Reading the initial sequences at ten to the ninth base pairs
per second. 
RUSSELL: Once we're past the first two levels, we'll begin the encoding
sequence. Increase TCH levels to 
(an alarm beeps) 
CRUSHER: What's happened? 
RUSSELL: The scanner is having trouble reading the Klingon dorsal root
ganglia. 
CRUSHER: Did this show up in your simulations? 
RUSSELL: Yes, but I thought I'd made sufficient adjustments. Bring me
the detronal scanner. I can scan the ganglia manually. It'll just take
a little longer. 
OGAWA: One hour forty three minutes until primary brain dysfunction. 
(Troi is trying to keep Alexander amused while all this is going on) 
(Alyssa hands over a tray with a length of jelly in it) 
RUSSELL: Retract the paraspinal muscle. 
CRUSHER: Got it. Watch the proximal nerve endings. 
RUSSELL: I see them. Make sure the cranial segment is at least fifteen
centimetres from the brain stem. 
OGAWA: I'm reading a slight fluctuation in the isocortex. 
CRUSHER: Twenty cc's inoprovaline. 
RUSSELL: Okay. Release retractors on the paraspinal. How much longer
can we keep him on life support? 
OGAWA: Twenty seven minutes. 
RUSSELL: Cover. Close, please. 
CRUSHER: Ready. 
RUSSELL: Tissue growth proceeding at anticipated rates. No initial
signs of rejection.
(Alexander has fallen asleep on Troi's lap) 
RUSSELL: Okay. Ready. Terminate life support. 
OGAWA: Life support disengaged. 
RUSSELL: Neural connections appear stable. 
CRUSHER: Looking good so far. 
OGAWA: Fluctuations in the isocortex. 
CRUSHER: Forty cc's inoprovaline. 
RUSSELL: Synaptic response falling. 
OGAWA: BP dropping. Now sixty over ten. VeK'tal response falling
rapidly. 
CRUSHER: Increase oxygen mixture to ninety five percent. 
RUSSELL: Beginning direct synaptic stimulation. 
OGAWA: Respiration is shallow and rapid. No response in the isocortex. 
CRUSHER: Seventy five cc's inoprovaline. 
OGAWA: Heart rate is erratic. 
RUSSELL: He's going into cardiac arrest. 
CRUSHER: All right, let's go to chloromydride. Fifteen cc's. 
RUSSELL: We're losing him. No BP, no pulse. Brain activity? 
OGAWA: Showing no higher brain functions. 
CRUSHER: All right twenty five cc's cordrazine. 
RUSSELL: That'll kill him. 
CRUSHER: Looks like we've done a pretty good job of that already,
Doctor. 
OGAWA: No BP, no pulse. No activity in the isocortex. 
CRUSHER: Cortical stimulator. Now. Again. Again. Again. Again. 
RUSSELL: Doctor. 
CRUSHER: All right, make a note in the log. Death occurred at twelve
hundred forty hours. 
RUSSELL: It was all going so well. No anomalies during replication, no
initial rejection.

