PICARD TROI CRUSHER RUSSELL WORF

[Worf's private room]

TROI: Alexander is scared, confused, hurt, all
because his father is refusing to see him. 
WORF: You know why I left those instructions. 
TROI: Yes I do. It's not the Klingon way, right? 
WORF: It is a question of honour, and I would ask you that you respect
my wishes in this matter, Counsellor. 
TROI: All I care about at this moment is a little boy who's terrified
he's going to lose his father. 
(Crusher and Russell enter) 
TROI: Maybe it's time you stopped lying here worrying about your
honour, and started thinking about someone else, like your son. 
(Troi leaves) 
CRUSHER: Would you like us to come back later? 
WORF: No. Please come in, Doctor. 
CRUSHER: This is Doctor Toby Russell. She's from the Adelman
Neurological Institute. She specialises in spinal injuries like yours.
We've discussed a variety of surgical procedures. I'm afraid none of
them will repair the spinal cord, but we have found a way for you to
regain much of your mobility. We can implant a series of neural
transducers in your lower torso and legs. They're designed to pick up
the electrical impulses from your brain and stimulate the corresponding
muscles. With a little work, you can eventually regain sixty to seventy
percent of your motor control. 
RUSSELL: The first step would be to fit your legs with motor assist
units like this one. They're a training device. Once you've mastered
using them, we can move on to the implants. 
(she puts a band around his leg) 
RUSSELL: Now try to move your leg. 
(it jerks) 
CRUSHER: No, no, that's good for a first try. It will take some time
before you get used to manipulating the 
WORF: No! (rips the band off) I will not live like that. 
CRUSHER: These are very sophisticated devices. With enough time, they
will give you 
WORF: Sixty percent of my mobility. No, I will not be seen lurching
through corridors like some half-Klingon machine, the object of
ridicule and disgust. 
CRUSHER: Perhaps this all seems a bit frightening to you know. I want
you to take some time before making a decision. Think about it. 
RUSSELL: There is one other option I'd like you to consider. It's
called genetronic replication. It's still in the experimental stage,
but if it works, it will restore virtually all of your mobility and
without the need for artificial implants.

[Sickbay]

CRUSHER: I thought we had discussed genetronics. 
RUSSELL: We did. 
CRUSHER: I also thought we'd decided against recommending it. 
RUSSELL: You heard him. He'd rather die than live with the implants. I
just gave him a better option than suicide. 
CRUSHER: He's grasping for straws and you're giving him one. Now
instead of dealing with his paralysis, he's going to be thinking about
this miracle cure of yours. 
RUSSELL: There's a real chance this could work. And if it does, it'll
be a major breakthrough in neurogenetics that will change a lot of
people's lives. 
CRUSHER: You're using the desperation of an injured man as an excuse to
try a procedure that you couldn't do under normal circumstances. I
checked with Starfleet Medical. They have turned down your request to
test genetronics on humanoids three times already. 
RUSSELL: Are you really going to hide behind the rules of some
bureaucracy? Beverly, your patient's life is at stake here. 
CRUSHER: Look, before you do any of this 
PICARD [OC]: Picard to Doctor Crusher. 
CRUSHER: Go ahead, Captain.

