PICARD RIKER CRUSHER DATA
great don emergency leaves seven centres mister medical friend

[Bridge]

PICARD: Doctor, the transport ship Denver has
struck a gravitic mine left over from the Cardassian war. They've
sustained heavy damage. 
RIKER: Their last message said they were attempting to crash land on
one of the planets in the Mericor system. We should arrive in just
under seven hours. 
CRUSHER: How many people were aboard? 
DATA: The Denver's standard crew complement is twenty three, but they
were transporting five hundred seventeen colonists to the Beloti
sector. 
CRUSHER: I'll need to convert all three shuttlebays to emergency triage
centres. I also want all civilians with medical training to report for
duty. 
PICARD: Make it so. 
RIKER: Captain, may I speak with you in private? 
PICARD: Of course, Number One. You have the Bridge, Mister Data. 
DATA: Aye, sir.

[Ready room]

RIKER: I have always tried to keep an open mind,
not to judge someone else's culture by my own, but for me to be a part
of this ceremony. 
PICARD: I understand from Doctor Crusher that Worf will never regain
the use of his legs. 
RIKER: That doesn't mean his life is over. 
PICARD: That's a very human perspective, Will. For a Klingon in Worf's
position, his life is over. 
RIKER: I can't accept that. 
PICARD: Will, if you were dying, if you were terminally ill with an
incurable disease and facing the remaining few days of your life in
pain, wouldn't you come to look on death as a release? 
RIKER: Worf isn't dying and he is not in pain. He could live a long
life 
PICARD: You or I could learn to live with that disability, but not
Worf. His life ended when those containers fell on him. We don't have
to agree with it, we don't have to understand it, but we do have to
respect his beliefs. 
RIKER: I can respect his beliefs, but he is asking me to take an active
role in his committing suicide. 
PICARD: He's asking for your help because you're his friend. That means
that you're going to have to make your decision based on that
friendship. 
RIKER: Which leaves me back where I started. 
PICARD: Will. Look, I'm sorry, I cannot help you to make this decision,
but I can tell you this. Klingons choose their friends with great care.
If he didn't know he could count on you, he never would have asked.

