PICARD [OC] RIKER RUSSELL PICARD CRUSHER DATA
body dna gravitic people ribs vital mater beloti dozens

[Medical lab]

CRUSHER: The cortical spinal tract has continued to
deteriorate over the last seventy two hours despite CPK enzymatic
therapy. 
RUSSELL: What about alkysine treatment? 
CRUSHER: Ineffective. 
RUSSELL: Overdesigned. Klingon anatomy. Twenty three ribs, two livers,
eight-chambered heart, double-lined neural pia mater. I've never seen
so many unnecessary redundancies in one body. 
CRUSHER: Unnecessary? The Klingons refer to it as the brak'lul. Almost
every vital function in their bodies has a built-in redundancy in case
any primary organ or system fails. 
RUSSELL: It's a good design in theory, but in practice, all the extra
organs means just that much more that can go wrong. Let me show you
something. I've been experimenting with DNA based generators. This is a
genetronic replicator. It reads the DNA coding of damaged organs,
translates that into a specific set of replicant instructions and then
begins to grow a replacement. 
CRUSHER: I've read of some of the preliminary work you've done. 
RUSSELL: The early results have been very encouraging. Beverly, the
genetronic replicator can create a completely new neural conduit for
your Lieutenant Worf. 
CRUSHER: Replace his entire spinal column? 
RUSSELL: Exactly. Instead of splicing and pasting together broken
connections like a couple of glorified tailors, we create a new living
system. 
CRUSHER: I had no idea you were already using this on humanoids. 
RUSSELL: I haven't been. This'll be the first time. 
CRUSHER: First time? 
RUSSELL: I've done dozens of holosimulations. The success rate is up to
thirty seven percent. 
CRUSHER: Even a holographic patient would balk at those odds. 
RUSSELL: Sooner or later, it has to be tried on a living patient. 
CRUSHER: You're talking about a spinal column. Even before we could
replace it, we have to remove the existing one, and we don't know
enough about Klingon neurological medicine to re-attach it. If
something goes wrong, he'll die. I agree it has remarkable potential,
but you're still in the most preliminary stages of research. No, I'm
afraid I can't justify the risk to Worf. We'll have to do with more
conventional approaches. 
RUSSELL: You're probably right. It's too radical an approach. 
PICARD [OC]: Doctor Crusher, please report to the Bridge. 
CRUSHER: On my way.

[Bridge]

PICARD: Doctor, the transport ship Denver has
struck a gravitic mine left over from the Cardassian war. They've
sustained heavy damage. 
RIKER: Their last message said they were attempting to crash land on
one of the planets in the Mericor system. We should arrive in just
under seven hours. 
CRUSHER: How many people were aboard? 
DATA: The Denver's standard crew complement is twenty three, but they
were transporting five hundred seventeen colonists to the Beloti
sector. 
CRUSHER: I'll need to convert all three shuttlebays to emergency triage
centres. I also want all civilians with medical training to report for
duty. 
PICARD: Make it so. 
RIKER: Captain, may I speak with you in private? 
PICARD: Of course, Number One. You have the Bridge, Mister Data. 
DATA: Aye, sir.

