KRITE RIKER SOREN

[Shuttlecraft]

RIKER: Later we'll try a flight simulation. Right
now let's do a systems review. I'll talk you through it. 
SOREN: Let me try it. Propulsion system, transfer conduits. Where's the
schematic reactor assembly? Oh, there it is. Engine nacelles. There's
nothing here that's unfamiliar. Navigational deflector, redundant
graviton polarity source generators. 
RIKER: You handle these controls like you grew up in a shuttle. 
SOREN: I did. My parents were pilots. I was flying with them before I
could walk. And as soon as I was old enough, I entered flight school.
Krite was my instructor. 
RIKER: He had a good student. 
SOREN: He? Commander, there are no he's or she's in a species without
gender. 
RIKER: Okay. For two days I've been trying to construct sentences
without personal pronouns. Now I give up. What should I use? It? To us,
that's rude. 
SOREN: We use a pronoun which is neutral. I do not think there is
really a translation. 
RIKER: Then I'll just have to muddle through. So forgive me if a stray
he or she slips by, okay? 
SOREN: Well, if that's the systems review, I don't see any problem.
What's next? 
RIKER: Lunch.

[Ten Forward]

SOREN: What is it? 
RIKER: Split pea soup. It's my father's recipe. I had it programmed
into the replicators. Well? 
SOREN: Unusual, but I think I like it. 
RIKER: It's very healthy. Helps to keep you warm on cold Alaskan
nights. 
SOREN: We prefer to stay warm by sleeping with a friend. 
RIKER: I see. 
SOREN: Not to mate. Just to sleep together for warmth. 
RIKER: Still sounds better than pea soup. 
SOREN: We are puzzling to you, aren't we? 
RIKER: A little. It's hard to grasp the idea of no gender. 
SOREN: It's just as hard for us to understand the strange division in
your species. Males and females. You are male. Tell me about males.
What is it that makes you different from females? 
RIKER: Snips and snails and puppy dog tails? 
SOREN: You have a dog's tail? 
RIKER: It's an old nursery rhyme. Girls are made from sugar and spice,
and boys are made from snips and snails. 
SOREN: That makes it sound better to be female. 
RIKER: It's an old-fashioned way of looking at the sexes. Not to say
that there's no real difference between them. Physically, men are
bigger, stronger in the upper body. We have different sexual organs.
Men can't bear young. 
SOREN: And what about feelings, or emotional attitudes? Are they
different? 
RIKER: Most people think so. But that's the kind of question that would
take a lifetime to answer. Let me ask you, what's it like on a planet
where the people have no gender? 
SOREN: I'm afraid I don't understand. 
RIKER: Well, who leads when you dance? If you dance. 
SOREN: We do, and whoever's taller leads. 
RIKER: Without the battle of the sexes you probably don't have as many
arguments. 
SOREN: Just because we don't have gender doesn't mean we don't have
conflicts. We're very strong-minded. We love a good fight. 
RIKER: From the sound of it there's not that much difference between
our species. 
SOREN: Maybe not. What kind of woman do you find attractive? 
RIKER: I like one who's intelligent and sure of herself, who I can talk
with and get something back. But the most important thing of all? She
has to laugh at my jokes. 
SOREN: (smiling) Tell me, is that the kind of woman that all human
males prefer? 
RIKER: Not at all. Some like quiet, demure women. Others prefer a lot
of energy. Some only respond to physical attractiveness. Others
couldn't care less. There are no rules. 
SOREN: You make it sound very complex. 
RIKER: Believe me, it is. 
SOREN: Well, perhaps it is that complexity which makes differences in
the sexes so interesting. 
KRITE: Good evening, Commander. 
RIKER: Good evening. 
SOREN: Please take my place, Krite. I have to be going. Thank you for
going over the flight protocols, Commander. It was very helpful.

Captain's log, supplemental. Commander Riker and
the J'naii pilot have set out to chart the null space pocket. If they
are successful, we can then proceed with a rescue attempt.

