SOREN RIKER KRITE LAFORGE

[Ten Forward]

SOREN: What is it? 
RIKER: Split pea soup. It's my father's recipe. I had it programmed
into the replicators. Well? 
SOREN: Unusual, but I think I like it. 
RIKER: It's very healthy. Helps to keep you warm on cold Alaskan
nights. 
SOREN: We prefer to stay warm by sleeping with a friend. 
RIKER: I see. 
SOREN: Not to mate. Just to sleep together for warmth. 
RIKER: Still sounds better than pea soup. 
SOREN: We are puzzling to you, aren't we? 
RIKER: A little. It's hard to grasp the idea of no gender. 
SOREN: It's just as hard for us to understand the strange division in
your species. Males and females. You are male. Tell me about males.
What is it that makes you different from females? 
RIKER: Snips and snails and puppy dog tails? 
SOREN: You have a dog's tail? 
RIKER: It's an old nursery rhyme. Girls are made from sugar and spice,
and boys are made from snips and snails. 
SOREN: That makes it sound better to be female. 
RIKER: It's an old-fashioned way of looking at the sexes. Not to say
that there's no real difference between them. Physically, men are
bigger, stronger in the upper body. We have different sexual organs.
Men can't bear young. 
SOREN: And what about feelings, or emotional attitudes? Are they
different? 
RIKER: Most people think so. But that's the kind of question that would
take a lifetime to answer. Let me ask you, what's it like on a planet
where the people have no gender? 
SOREN: I'm afraid I don't understand. 
RIKER: Well, who leads when you dance? If you dance. 
SOREN: We do, and whoever's taller leads. 
RIKER: Without the battle of the sexes you probably don't have as many
arguments. 
SOREN: Just because we don't have gender doesn't mean we don't have
conflicts. We're very strong-minded. We love a good fight. 
RIKER: From the sound of it there's not that much difference between
our species. 
SOREN: Maybe not. What kind of woman do you find attractive? 
RIKER: I like one who's intelligent and sure of herself, who I can talk
with and get something back. But the most important thing of all? She
has to laugh at my jokes. 
SOREN: (smiling) Tell me, is that the kind of woman that all human
males prefer? 
RIKER: Not at all. Some like quiet, demure women. Others prefer a lot
of energy. Some only respond to physical attractiveness. Others
couldn't care less. There are no rules. 
SOREN: You make it sound very complex. 
RIKER: Believe me, it is. 
SOREN: Well, perhaps it is that complexity which makes differences in
the sexes so interesting. 
KRITE: Good evening, Commander. 
RIKER: Good evening. 
SOREN: Please take my place, Krite. I have to be going. Thank you for
going over the flight protocols, Commander. It was very helpful.

Captain's log, supplemental. Commander Riker and
the J'naii pilot have set out to chart the null space pocket. If they
are successful, we can then proceed with a rescue attempt.

[Shuttlecraft]

SOREN: I've illuminated the delta four grid map.
We'll start there and expand. 
RIKER: Stand by, forward phaser array. 
SOREN: Pulse vanished at delta four point two by point three. 
RIKER: Firing second burst. 
SOREN: Delta four point four by point five. 
RIKER: This is working. Initiating computer task hand-off. 
SOREN: Commander, tell me about your sexual organs. 
RIKER: Er. 
SOREN: Is that an uncomfortable subject for humans? 
RIKER: No, but it doesn't tend to be a topic of casual conversation. 
SOREN: I'm interested in your mating practices. What is involved with
two sexes? 
RIKER: Correcting course. Zero two one mark zero. 
SOREN: Mating? 
RIKER: Right. Well, it's pretty simple. Men inseminate the women. Women
carry the baby. 
SOREN: Our foetuses are incubated in fibrous husks, which the parents
inseminate. From what we know of other species, our method is less
risky and less painful. 
RIKER: And less enjoyable. 
SOREN: Less enjoyable? 
RIKER: For humans, the sexual act brings a closeness and intimacy. It
can be a very pleasurable experience. Inseminating a husk. 
SOREN: That's just the last step. Mating is a long ritual for us, full
of variety and invention. I assure you, it is extremely pleasurable. 
RIKER: I'm picking up a neutrino emission from within the null space. 
SOREN: That may be coming from our shuttle. I'll note these
coordinates. 
SOREN: I wonder. 
RIKER: What? 
SOREN: If a human and a J'naii would be sexually compatible. 
RIKER: I don't know. 
SOREN: Of course it would never be permitted. 
RIKER: Why not? 
SOREN: The idea of gender. It is offensive to my people. You see, long
ago we had two sexes, as you do. But we evolved into a higher form. I
don't mean to sound insulting, but on my planet we have been taught
that gender is primitive. 
RIKER: Primitive? 
SOREN: Less evolved. 
RIKER: Maybe so, but sometimes there's a lot to be said for an
experience that's primitive. 
SOREN: Delta five grid map is fully plotted. 
RIKER: Adjusting course. Zero two nine mark zero. 
(the shuttle's port nacelle workings are exposed) 
RIKER: The port engine's down. 
SOREN: Reducing power in the starboard nacelle. 
RIKER: That's not enough. I have to activate the manoeuvring thrusters.

SOREN: Thrusters aren't responding. I'll try to reroute the firing
sequence. 
RIKER: Inertial dampers are failing. Hang on! 
(Soren gets thrown across the floor) 
LAFORGE [OC]: Enterprise to shuttle, do you read me? 
RIKER: Affirmative. We've lost an engine. 
LAFORGE [OC]: We'll try to get a tractor beam on you. 
RIKER: The sooner the better. Enterprise, we have an injury. Transport
Soren directly to Sickbay. 
LAFORGE [OC]: Right away, Commander.

