TROI WORF RIKER SOREN CRUSHER DATA

[Data's quarters]

(I'm assuming that from the deerstalker and cape on
the hat stand behind Worf) 
TROI: All right. This hand, the game is Federation Day. 
WORF: What is that? 
TROI: Well, the Federation was founded in Twenty One Sixty One, so,
twos, sixes, and aces are wild. 
WORF: That is a woman's game. 
TROI: Oh? Why is that? 
WORF: All those wild cards. They support a weak hand. A man's game has
no wild cards. 
CRUSHER: Let me get this straight. Are you saying it's a woman's game
because women are weak and need more help? 
WORF: Yes. 
CRUSHER: And just this afternoon I was insisting to one of the J'naii
that those attitudes were but a distant memory. 
WORF: The J'naii. They bother me. 
TROI: Why, Worf? 
WORF: They just do. They're all alike. No males, no females. 
TROI: Well I'm sure we're just as strange to them. 
CRUSHER: Well one of them seems to be overcoming the differences, at
least in regards to one of us. 
WORF: What are you saying, Doctor? 
CRUSHER: I could be wrong, but I get the definite impression that Soren
is attracted to Commander Riker. 
WORF: A human and a J'naii? Impossible. 
DATA: Why? 
TROI: Good question. Worf? 
WORF: With all these wild cards, it is difficult to know exactly what
is in my hand. However, I will open with fifty.

[Shuttlecraft]

RIKER: The portable transporter array is in. When
we get into null space, we'll need to initialise it before we can
transport the J'naii crew to this shuttle. But there should still be
enough power left to beam all of us back to the Enterprise. 
SOREN: Is the buffer field generator installed? 
RIKER: Not yet. Geordi thinks that'll be ready by oh eight hundred
hours tomorrow. But before that, we should see if we can balance this
engine. Can you access the starboard manifold thrust? 
(Soren crawls under the control panel) 
SOREN: There. 
RIKER: Set the arc at six point three. I'll optimise the plasma flow. 
SOREN: Commander, I'd like to tell you something. Something that's not
easy to say. 
RIKER: What's that? 
SOREN: I find you attractive. I'm taking a terrible risk telling you
that. It means revealing something to you, something that, if it were
known on my planet, would be very dangerous for me. Occasionally, among
my people, there are a few who are born different, who are throwbacks
from the era when we all had gender. Some have strong inclinations to
maleness, and some have urges to be female. I am one of the latter. 
RIKER: I have to admit I had a feeling you were different. 
SOREN: I was hoping you would. But in front of Krite and the others, I
must be careful not to reveal myself. 
RIKER: Why? 
SOREN: On our world these feelings are forbidden. Those who are
discovered are shamed and ridiculed, and only by undergoing
psychotectic therapy and having all elements of gender eliminated can
they become accepted into society again. Those of us who have these
urges live secret and guarded lives. We seek each other out, always
hiding, always terrified of being discovered. 
RIKER: How long have you known that you were like this? 
SOREN: I've known I was different all my life. But I didn't understand
how or why until I was older. 
RIKER: And when you realised, what then? 
SOREN: I remember when I was very young, before I knew what I was,
there was a rumour in my school that one of the students preferred a
gender, in that case, male. The children started making fun of him, and
every day they were more cruel They could tell he was afraid and
somehow that seemed to encourage them. One morning in class, he
appeared, bleeding and in ripped clothes. He said he had fallen down.
And of course the school authorities found out and took him away, and
gave him psychotectic treatments. When he came back, he stood in front
of the whole school and told us how happy he was now that he had been
cured. After that, I realised how dangerous it was to be different. And
once I got older, and knew what I was, I was terrified. I have had to
live with that fear ever since. 
RIKER: Do you have relationships with others? 
SOREN: Yes, with those who have discovered they are male. I have had to
live a life of pretence and lies, but with you I can be honest. Please,
don't say anything. Just think about it.

