RIKER SOREN
sure don rude graviton parents schematic null fitted size

[Shuttlebay]

(shuttle 15 Magellan, with Onizuku in the
foreground) 
SOREN: Is this the one? 
RIKER: This is it. Short-range craft, two twelve hundred fifty
millicochrane warp engines. 
SOREN: Looks like microfusion thrusters. 
RIKER: Right. 
SOREN: Armament? 
RIKER: None, usually. This one's been fitted with two type-four phaser
emitters. We'll use those to chart the null space. 
SOREN: Chart it? 
RIKER: Mister La Forge wants to get an idea of the size of the pocket.
He thinks the rate of energy absorption is linked to its size. 
SOREN: I'm not sure how we go about mapping something we can't see. 
RIKER: Well, that's where the emitters come in. We shoot out a series
of photon pulses into the pocket and chart where each one disappears.
From that we should get a fairly complete outline. 
SOREN: Let's take a look at the controls.

[Shuttlecraft]

RIKER: Later we'll try a flight simulation. Right
now let's do a systems review. I'll talk you through it. 
SOREN: Let me try it. Propulsion system, transfer conduits. Where's the
schematic reactor assembly? Oh, there it is. Engine nacelles. There's
nothing here that's unfamiliar. Navigational deflector, redundant
graviton polarity source generators. 
RIKER: You handle these controls like you grew up in a shuttle. 
SOREN: I did. My parents were pilots. I was flying with them before I
could walk. And as soon as I was old enough, I entered flight school.
Krite was my instructor. 
RIKER: He had a good student. 
SOREN: He? Commander, there are no he's or she's in a species without
gender. 
RIKER: Okay. For two days I've been trying to construct sentences
without personal pronouns. Now I give up. What should I use? It? To us,
that's rude. 
SOREN: We use a pronoun which is neutral. I do not think there is
really a translation. 
RIKER: Then I'll just have to muddle through. So forgive me if a stray
he or she slips by, okay? 
SOREN: Well, if that's the systems review, I don't see any problem.
What's next? 
RIKER: Lunch.

