RIKER PICARD MEDIC KRITE SOREN CRUSHER
little support life won systems kaboom captain compensators size

[Shuttlecraft]

SOREN: Heading confirmed. Energy readings are
normal, with power reserves stabilised at one hundred percent. 
RIKER: Acknowledged. 
SOREN: It's dead ahead, approximately fifty kilometres. 
RIKER: Riker to Enterprise, we're taking her in. 
(and the little craft disappears) 
RIKER: Riker to Enterprise? Riker to Enterprise. 
SOREN: Power reserves are down to eighty four percent. 
RIKER: Look. (the other shuttle) Try hailing them. 
SOREN: Calling the Taris Murn. Do you read me? 
RIKER: Getting sensor readings. They're unconscious but they're alive.
Stand by. I'm going to transport them over here. 
SOREN: Power reserves at sixty eight percent and dropping. 
(two figures start to materialise then vanish again) 
RIKER: The null space must be affecting the annular confinement beam. 
SOREN: We used ten megajoules with that attempt. We're down to thirty
four percent of reserves. 
RIKER: We can give it one more try. More than that, we won't have
enough power to get ourselves out of here. 
(this time the two bodies solidify) 
SOREN: They need medical attention quickly. 
RIKER: Okay. Stand by to transport to the Enterprise. Here we go. 
(but that doesn't work) 
RIKER: Energy consumption? 
SOREN: We're down to nine percent. We don't have enough to get back. 
RIKER: If we just sit here, we'll lose all of our systems within an
hour, including life support. Okay, I'm rerouting the propulsion
system to the transporter. Re-channel the navigation systems. Let's
transfer every microjoule of energy we've got. Sensors, life support.
This might give us one last shot. 
SOREN: But if we use an energy shift of that size, it'll overload the
phase compensators. The shuttle 
RIKER: Will explode. But if we stay here, we're dead anyway. Maximum
energy levels, five seconds. See you in a minute. 
(KaBOOM)

[Sickbay]

(and the four materialise safely) 
CRUSHER: They've been oxygen deprived. There doesn't seem to be any
significant damage. Prepare some dexalin. 
MEDIC: Yes, Doctor. 
KRITE: Commander, thank you. 
RIKER: Your colleague Soren was very helpful. 
KRITE: Captain, would you all join us this evening? We would like to
express our gratitude. 
PICARD: We'd be happy to. 
KRITE: Noor will be eager to get a first hand report. We should return
to the surface. 
SOREN: I will see you later tonight, Commander. 
