SOREN RIKER KRITE NOOR

[Guest quarters]

RIKER: Hello. I'm here to see Soren. 
KRITE: I know. 
RIKER: We had an appointment. We were going to discuss 
KRITE: I don't think so, Commander. 
RIKER: Excuse me? 
KRITE: We know about the two of you. We know what you're doing. 
RIKER: Where is Soren? 
KRITE: We're going to make sure it doesn't happen again. 
RIKER: Answer me. Where is Soren? 
KRITE: In custody, and there's nothing you can do about it. 
RIKER: The hell there isn't.

[Civic chamber]

NOOR: You are aware of the charges against you? 
SOREN: Yes. 
NOOR: Do you intend to dispute them? Well? What is your response? 
(Riker enters) 
NOOR: Commander Riker, these proceedings are closed to everyone. 
RIKER: I think I just opened them. 
NOOR: Sir, this is a private matter. We are grateful for your recent
help, but that gives you no right to interfere with our personal
concerns. 
RIKER: I want you to know what really happened. It's all my fault. I
was attracted to Soren. I pursued. I insisted. I didn't understand your
ways until she explained them to me and rejected me. Nothing happened
between us. I ask your forgiveness. I behaved inappropriately. 
NOOR: Is this true? 
SOREN: No. 
RIKER: Soren. 
SOREN: I am tired of lies. I am female. I was born that way. I have had
those feelings, those longings, all of my life. It is not unnatural. I
am not sick because I feel this way. I do not need to be helped. I do
not need to be cured. What I need, and what all of those who are like
me need, is your understanding and your compassion. We have not injured
you in any way. And yet, we are scorned and attacked. And all because
we are different. What we do is no different from what you do. We talk
and laugh. We complain about work and we wonder about growing old. We
talk about our families, and we worry about the future. And we cry with
each other when things seem hopeless. All of the loving things that you
do with each other, that is what we do. And for that we are called
misfits and deviants and criminals. What right do you have to punish
us? What right do you have to change us? What makes you think you can
dictate how people love each other? 
NOOR: I congratulate you, Soren. Your decision to admit your perversion
makes it much more likely that we can help you. 
RIKER: Wait, wait, wait. You don't have to do this. 
NOOR: Commander? 
RIKER: Let me take her with me. She can go back to the Enterprise. We
would give her asylum. You would never have to see her again. That
would solve the problem, wouldn't it? You'd be rid of her. She would
never be able to influence anyone again. 
NOOR: Commander, after Soren's diatribe, you must think that we are a
cruel, repressive people. Nothing could be further from the truth. 
RIKER: I'm just trying to find a solution that would satisfy everyone. 
NOOR: We are concerned about our citizens. We take our obligations to
them seriously. Soren is sick, and sick people want to get well. 
RIKER: Did it occur to you that she might like to stay the way she is? 
NOOR: You don't understand. We have a very high success rate in
treating deviants like this. And without exception, they become happier
people after their treatment, and grateful that we care enough to cure
them. You see, Commander, on this world, everyone wants to be normal. 
RIKER: She is. 
NOOR: Take Soren to quarters. Treatment will begin tomorrow. 
RIKER: Don't do this. Soren! 
NOOR: No more, Commander. 
RIKER: Riker to Enterprise. One to transport.

