PICARD [OC] RIKER SOREN LAFORGE
school readouts ve knew percent lives came eliminated shamed

[Shuttlecraft]

RIKER: The portable transporter array is in. When
we get into null space, we'll need to initialise it before we can
transport the J'naii crew to this shuttle. But there should still be
enough power left to beam all of us back to the Enterprise. 
SOREN: Is the buffer field generator installed? 
RIKER: Not yet. Geordi thinks that'll be ready by oh eight hundred
hours tomorrow. But before that, we should see if we can balance this
engine. Can you access the starboard manifold thrust? 
(Soren crawls under the control panel) 
SOREN: There. 
RIKER: Set the arc at six point three. I'll optimise the plasma flow. 
SOREN: Commander, I'd like to tell you something. Something that's not
easy to say. 
RIKER: What's that? 
SOREN: I find you attractive. I'm taking a terrible risk telling you
that. It means revealing something to you, something that, if it were
known on my planet, would be very dangerous for me. Occasionally, among
my people, there are a few who are born different, who are throwbacks
from the era when we all had gender. Some have strong inclinations to
maleness, and some have urges to be female. I am one of the latter. 
RIKER: I have to admit I had a feeling you were different. 
SOREN: I was hoping you would. But in front of Krite and the others, I
must be careful not to reveal myself. 
RIKER: Why? 
SOREN: On our world these feelings are forbidden. Those who are
discovered are shamed and ridiculed, and only by undergoing
psychotectic therapy and having all elements of gender eliminated can
they become accepted into society again. Those of us who have these
urges live secret and guarded lives. We seek each other out, always
hiding, always terrified of being discovered. 
RIKER: How long have you known that you were like this? 
SOREN: I've known I was different all my life. But I didn't understand
how or why until I was older. 
RIKER: And when you realised, what then? 
SOREN: I remember when I was very young, before I knew what I was,
there was a rumour in my school that one of the students preferred a
gender, in that case, male. The children started making fun of him, and
every day they were more cruel They could tell he was afraid and
somehow that seemed to encourage them. One morning in class, he
appeared, bleeding and in ripped clothes. He said he had fallen down.
And of course the school authorities found out and took him away, and
gave him psychotectic treatments. When he came back, he stood in front
of the whole school and told us how happy he was now that he had been
cured. After that, I realised how dangerous it was to be different. And
once I got older, and knew what I was, I was terrified. I have had to
live with that fear ever since. 
RIKER: Do you have relationships with others? 
SOREN: Yes, with those who have discovered they are male. I have had to
live a life of pretence and lies, but with you I can be honest. Please,
don't say anything. Just think about it.

[Shuttlebay]

LAFORGE: That's it, Commander, everything checks
out. The energy buffer is installed and functioning. I estimate it
should reduce the power drain to your systems by about forty percent. 
RIKER: Any guess how long we'll have? 
LAFORGE: Lets just say you don't want to waste any time once you get in
there. You'll have to give him continuous readouts on energy
consumption. I can't even predict if the drain will be at a constant
rate. 
SOREN: I understand. 
LAFORGE: Then that's it. Commander, I'll monitor you as far as I can,
but once you get inside that pocket you're on your own. 
RIKER: We don't have any idea what condition the shuttle crew is in, so
we'll all beam directly to Sickbay. 
LAFORGE: I'll notify Doctor Crusher to be standing by. 
(Soren and Riker get in the shuttlecraft) 
LAFORGE: La Forge to Bridge. 
PICARD [OC]: Picard here. 
LAFORGE: We're ready to initiate shuttle pre-launch sequence.

