PICARD OGAWA CRUSHER LAFORGE

[Sickbay]

OGAWA: Sickbay here. 
CRUSHER [OC]: Is Commander La Forge there? 
OGAWA: No, Doctor, he's not. Wait a minute. He just came in.
(After Geordi's examination) 
PICARD: You wanted to see me, Doctor? 
CRUSHER: Yes. Captain, have you been getting the feeling that you've
experienced certain things before? A sense of repetition? 
PICARD: Yes, recently. While I was reading. Why do you ask? 
CRUSHER: There have been similar incidents reported all over the ship.
Feelings of
dj vu. I had a premonition Geordi was going to come in to Sickbay. A
few seconds later he did, with the symptoms of an ear infection. I was
going to run the standard tests, but somehow I had a feeling they would
turn out negative. So I ran an optical diagnostic which traced the
problem to Geordi's visor. His dizziness is being caused by a phase
shift in his visual receptors. It's causing him to see images that
aren't there. 
LAFORGE: They're like blurry after-images. 
CRUSHER: I ran a scan to see if I could detect what he was seeing. I
picked up miniscule distortions in the surrounding dekyon field.
Somehow, his visor is translating those distortions into visual
impulses. 
LAFORGE: It could be a malfunction in the ship's warp field generator.
I'll check it out. 
PICARD: Run a localised subspace scan to look for anything else. 
LAFORGE: Aye, sir. 
(Geordi leaves) 
PICARD: Keep me advised.

[Crusher's quarters]

(This time, Beverly isn't dressed for bed. She
carefully puts her glass down on another table out of harm's way. As
soon as she turns out the lights, the voices start and she grabs her
tricorder to record them.) 
CRUSHER: Crusher to Commander La Forge. 
LAFORGE [OC]: La Forge here. 
CRUSHER: Geordi, I just heard what sounded like voices in my room, but
no one else is here. 
LAFORGE [OC]: Sensors just picked up something strange, too. We're
checking it out. 
CRUSHER: I'm on my way. 
(She grabs her lab coat and it knocks the glass of the table. Some
things just have to happen.) 
