TROI LAFORGE WORF PICARD RIKER CRUSHER DATA

[Engineering]

LAFORGE: Looks like you managed to record six point
two seconds worth. Let's see if we can filter the signal and clear it
up a little bit. 
CRUSHER: Then I wasn't just hearing things? 
DATA: The sound itself appears to have been real. However the acoustic
energy does not correspond to any ship's system, nor to any voice
communications sent at the time you heard it. 
CRUSHER: Then where did the sound come from? 
LAFORGE: You heard the voices at the same time our localised subspace
scan picked up a dekyon field distortion. The two may be related. Let's
give another listen. 
DATA: Computer, perform a narrow bandwidth analysis. Eliminate all
non-vocal waveform components. 
CRUSHER: Can we isolate the voices? Find out what they're saying? 
DATA: Computer, continuous playback please. There are approximately one
thousand voices overlapping. The voices are those of the Enterprise
crew. Our voices.

[Observation lounge]

CRUSHER: I'm sorry to call you here so early, but
we couldn't wait until oh seven hundred hours. We think we may have an
explanation for the odd occurrences around here. Commander. 
LAFORGE: This is going to sound pretty wild. Somehow, we've entered
what seems to be a temporal causality loop. We think we're stuck in a
particular fragment in time, and we've been repeating that same
fragment over and over again. 
TROI: Is this what's causing our dj vu? 
CRUSHER: Yes, but it's more than that. In dj vu, you only think
you're repeating events. We actually are. 
LAFORGE: Our theory is this. Every time the loop begins again,
everything resets itself, and starts all over. We don't remember
anything that happened before, so each time through the loop, we think
it's the first. 
RIKER: You mean we could have come into this room, sat at this table
and had this conversation a dozen times already? 
LAFORGE: A dozen, a hundred, it's impossible to tell. We could have
been trapped here for hours, days, maybe years. 
CRUSHER: If what we're saying is true, those voices I heard might have
been echoes from previous loops. 
LAFORGE: It's the same thing with the phase shift in my visor.
After-images in time. 
PICARD: If you're right about this, how did it happen? How did we get
there? 
DATA: I have a hypothesis that may explain that, Captain. I have
analysed the recording Doctor Crusher made. Most of it is quite
ordinary. One hundred fifty discussions about ship operations, two
hundred fifty two conversations of a personal nature, five couples
engaged in romantic encounters. 
PICARD: Your point, Mister Data? 
DATA: There is evidence of some sort of disaster aboard the Enterprise,
severe enough that the Captain ordered all hands to abandon ship. I
have isolated three segments of the recording that are crucial. 
WORF [OC]: A highly localised distortion of the space-time continuum. 
DATA [OC]: Collision course. Impact in thirty six seconds. 
PICARD [OC]: All hands, abandon ship! Repeat, all hands abandon 
LAFORGE: Worf refers to a distortion. If this were a temporal
distortion, and if we were close enough to it, it's possible that a
large enough explosion might've ruptured the space-time continuum. We
collided, exploded, then got stuck in this repeating loop of time. 
PICARD: If you're right, perhaps we could escape the loop by avoiding
the collision. 
LAFORGE: That's our guess. 
WORF: Maybe we should reverse course. 
RIKER: For all we know, reversing course may be what leads us into the
crash. 
PICARD: No. We can't afford to start second guessing ourselves. We'll
stay on this course until we have reason to change it. But let's do
everything we can to avoid the collision. 
LAFORGE: Captain, we might not be able to figure out how to avoid this
accident until it's too late. And if the loop begins again, we'll
forget everything we've learned this time around. 
PICARD: What do you suggest? 
LAFORGE: If we do find a way to avoid this collision, we should try to
send that information into the next loop. 
RIKER: Is that possible? 
DATA: We have seen that echoes, or after-images, from previous loops
appear as distortions in the dekyon field. We may be able to send a
deliberate echo into the next loop. 
TROI: Like a message in a bottle. 
LAFORGE: Exactly. We could enhance a dekyon emission to create a
specific pattern and send ourselves a message. Not a long
one, probably only a few characters. Maybe one word. 
RIKER: How do we know we'll pick up that word the next time through? 
DATA: If the dekyon emission is modulated correctly, it will set up
resonances in my positronic subprocessors. I will receive the
information on what you would call a subconscious level. 
LAFORGE: Now there's the catch. We have no way of knowing how this
information will be perceived by Data. It might be like a posthypnotic
suggestion. 
PICARD: Even with all these uncertainties, we've got to try. Take
whatever steps are necessary to send a message. Dismissed.

