TROI RO LAFORGE WORF PICARD RIKER CRUSHER DATA

[Sickbay]

CRUSHER: His dizziness is being caused by a phase
shift in his visual receptors. It's causing him to see things that
aren't there. 
LAFORGE: They're like blurry after-images. 
CRUSHER: I ran a scan to see if I could detect what he was seeing. I
picked up miniscule distortions in the surrounding dekyon field. His
visor seems to be translating those distortions into visual impulses. 
LAFORGE: Could be a malfunction in the ship's warp field generator.
I'll check it out. 
PICARD: While you're at it, run a localised subspace scan to look for
anything unusual. 
LAFORGE: Aye, sir. 
PICARD: Keep me advised, Doctor.

[Engineering]

LAFORGE: Lateral sensors online. Subspace scanners
active. Data, would you run a level two diagnostic on the warp
subsystems? 
DATA: Certainly. 
(the display keeps flashing up the number 3) 
LAFORGE: All threes. that can't be right. 
DATA: I have encountered the numeral three an inordinate number of
times over the last two hours. 
LAFORGE: We have got a dekyon field fluctuation on deck nine, section
twenty eight. 
CRUSHER [OC]: Crusher to Commander La Forge. 
LAFORGE: La Forge here. 
CRUSHER [OC]: I just heard what sounded like voices in my room, but
there's no one here. 
LAFORGE: Sensors just picked up something strange, too. We're checking
it out. 
CRUSHER [OC]: I'm on my way down. 
(the sound of breaking glass) 
LAFORGE: Doctor Crusher, are you all right? 
CRUSHER [OC]: I'm fine.

[Observation lounge]

DATA: I have isolated three segments of this
recording that are crucial. 
WORF [OC]: A highly localised distortion of the space-time continuum. 
DATA [OC]: Collision course. Impact in thirty six seconds. 
PICARD [OC]: All hands, abandon ship! Repeat, all hands abandon 
LAFORGE: Worf refers to a distortion. If this were a temporal
distortion, and if we were close enough to it, it's possible that a
large enough explosion might've ruptured the space time continuum. We
collided, exploded, then got stuck in this repeating loop of time. 
PICARD: If you're right about this then perhaps we can escape the loop
by avoiding the collision. 
LAFORGE: That's our guess. 
WORF: Perhaps we should reverse course. 
RIKER: For all we know, reversing course might be what leads us into
the crash. 
PICARD: We can't afford to start second guessing ourselves. We should
stay on this course until we have reason to change it. But in the
meantime, I think we should do what we can to avoid a collision. 
LAFORGE: Captain. We've been seeing the number three all over the ship.
On consoles, in a poker game. 
DATA: To date we have encountered two thousand eighty five conspicuous
examples of the number three. 
LAFORGE: All of these threes can't be coming up by accident. 
CRUSHER: Maybe somebody's trying to tell us something. 
LAFORGE: We came to the same conclusion so we ran a shipwide
diagnostic. The only unusual thing we found was a dekyon field
modulation in Data's positronic subprocessors. 
RIKER: What could be causing it? 
LAFORGE: I don't know, but if I wanted to send information from one
loop to the next I might use a method like a dekyon emission. 
TROI: You think we sent ourselves a message? 
LAFORGE: It would make sense. Maybe we are trying to tell ourselves
something. 
PICARD: If that were true, what could three indicate? 
RIKER: Maybe we should run a level three diagnostic on all key systems.

LAFORGE: It's a good idea. I'll have the computer run a pattern
matching algorithm based on the number three. 
RO [OC]: Bridge to Captain Picard. 
PICARD: Go ahead. 
RO [OC]: We're getting unusual readings twenty thousand kilometres off
the starboard bow. 
PICARD: On our way.

