BOOTHBY PICARD DATA LAFORGE
cadets satellite members performing occurred nick pulling starship check

[Academy gardens]

(Boothby is trying to pull grass out of the middle
of a shrub) 
BOOTHBY: These weeds keep popping up in the pittosporum. Poor plants
don't have a chance to grow. 
PICARD: You could use a good herbicide instead of pulling the weeds
with your bare hands. 
BOOTHBY: And you could explore space on a holodeck instead of a
starship. 
PICARD: Boothby, tell me some more about Nova Squadron. 
BOOTHBY: Not going well, is it. 
PICARD: No, it isn't. 
BOOTHBY: Do you remember the parrises squares tournament of 'twenty
four? 
PICARD: The final game against Minsk. 
BOOTHBY: It took me three weeks to repair the grounds after the
celebration. 
PICARD: We had a lot to celebrate. Our team wasn't supposed to win. We
were very proud of them. 
BOOTHBY: Well the cadets today are just as proud of the Nova Squadron.
The celebration they held after Nova won the Rigel Cup made 'twenty
four look like a dinner party. To the other cadets, the members of that
team are gods, and that's a hard image to live up to. But Nick Locarno,
he watches out for them. He keeps them together. Nick is what makes
that team special. He's their coach, surrogate father and best friend
all in one. A natural leader. The members of that team love him. If he
asks them to do something, they do it, even if it means going right
over a cliff.

[Engineering]

(Picard and Crusher enter) 
PICARD: Report. 
LAFORGE: Nothing conclusive. We do know that the collision occurred
about four seconds after the satellite images were recorded, but we
still don't know how the ships got into the new formation or why the
crash occurred. 
DATA: We unsuccessfully tried fifty three different computational
models in an effort to simulate the movements of the Nova Squadron just
prior to the crash. 
LAFORGE: There're just too many variables to take into consideration.
Speed, attitude, course. 
PICARD: Did Wesley's flight recorder indicate that there was anything
unusual about the ship or the way it was operating? 
LAFORGE: The starboard power flow was fluctuating. 
DATA: However it was well within operational limits. 
LAFORGE: Fluidic pressure in the landing struts was low, but I don't
know what difference that would make. 
DATA: We did find that Wesley opened his coolant interlock just before
beginning the manoeuvre around Titan. 
LAFORGE: That is a bit unusual. Normally the interlock is closed unless
you're performing a check on the engine coolant levels. But there's no
evidence Wesley was performing that sort of check. 
PICARD: Filling the primary coolant tanks requires an open interlock
but that can only be performed in a maintenance bay. Is there any other
reason for opening the valve? 
LAFORGE: It's the first step in purging the plasma exhaust. 
DATA: That procedure would be extremely hazardous while the ship was in
flight. 
LAFORGE: Yeah, the engine would probably ignite the plasma. 
PICARD: Ignite the plasma. That's exactly what they were trying to do.

