SATELK WESLEY BRAND ALBERT

[Academy hearing room]

(Wesley is checking the data from his flight
recorder against the display on the screen) 
ALBERT: Mister Crusher? 
WESLEY: Sir. 
ALBERT: At ease. Am I interrupting? 
WESLEY: No. I was just going over my deposition for tomorrow. 
ALBERT: They told me you'd be here. I found this in Josh's room. I
think it belongs to you. 
WESLEY: Our ski trip. Josh and I went to Calgary last month. He forgot
his sweater so he borrowed one of mine. 
ALBERT: He told me you helped him with his classes. 
WESLEY: A little. He only needed help in statistical mechanics. 
ALBERT: If Josh had a weakness, it was mathematics. 
WESLEY: No, he could do it. He just didn't like to. 
ALBERT: His mother and I thought he'd never get out of calculus. Then
he found out what the Academy entrance requirements were like. That
turned him around. He stayed after class, got a tutor. He really worked
hard. Never gave up on anything. And he had a lot of respect for you,
and everybody on the team. I realise it was his fault. That everybody
could have been killed. And I want to say that, I want to say I'm
sorry. I'm sorry that he let you down.

[Academy hearing room]

(it is now next morning) 
BRAND: Are you ready, Mister Crusher? 
WESLEY: Yes, sir. This is the beginning of our run toward Titan. I'm on
the right wing. 
BRAND: Where is Mister Albert at this point? 
WESLEY: He was on my port quarter, approximately fifty metres away.
We've just received the signal to begin the diamond slot formation.
That's Cadet Locarno coming into view. We're in a twenty degree turn
around Titan. We should be coming out of Titan's gravity well about
now. 
BRAND: That is the extent of the data we were able to recover from the
flight recorder. Mister Crusher, would you describe what happened after
you left orbit of Titan? 
WESLEY: Once we cleared the moon, Mister Locarno led us into a Yeager
loop. Approximately nine seconds later, my proximity alarm went off. I
tried to veer away, but it was too late and I was hit. I lost control
of my ship. A power coupling exploded in my cockpit. I don't know how,
but I managed to activate my escape transporter, and the next thing I
remember is finding myself on the emergency evac station on Mimas with
the rest of the squadron, except Josh. 
BRAND: Do you have anything to add to your testimony? 
WESLEY: No, sir. 
SATELK: Mister Crusher, will you describe a Yeager loop? 
WESLEY: The ships begin in a diamond slot formation, and climb and loop
backwards at a steep angle, and at the peak of the loop, turn over and
accelerate in a new direction. 
SATELK: Mister Crusher, did your team remain in formation throughout
the loop? 
WESLEY: Yes, sir. 
BRAND: I want you to be absolutely clear on this point, Mister Crusher.
Before the collision, was Nova Squadron in a diamond slot formation? 
WESLEY: Yes, sir. 
SATELK: Computer, display Saturn NavCon file six dash three seven nine.
These images were obtained by a navigational control satellite in orbit
around Saturn during a standard sensor sweep. Computer, freeze image.
Magnify sector gamma three and enhance. 
(the five little ships are forming a circle, not a diamond) 
SATELK: This image was recorded when your ships moved briefly into the
satellite's sensor range. According to the time index, what you see on
the monitor took place seven seconds after Nova Squadron completed the
Yeager loop. 
BRAND: Mister Crusher, are these ships in a diamond slot formation? 
WESLEY: No, sir. 
BRAND: What is your explanation, Mister Crusher? 
WESLEY: I have none, sir. 
