LOCARNO BRAND CRUSHER WESLEY PICARD
afraid duncan able albert commander broken bad wreckage leader

[Academy hearing room]

(The Admiral is addressing a pair of parents,
Picard, Crusher and another Starfleet officer) 
BRAND: There was very little left to salvage from the wreckage. We did
recover one of the ships' data recorders, but it was badly damaged.
We're attempting to restore the information, but that will take some
time. Standard procedure calls for an immediate investigation by two
command level officers. Captain Satelk and I will be taking depositions
from Nova Squadron at fifteen hundred hours today. Commander Albert.
I'm sure that everyone in this room joins me in expressing my deepest
sympathies to you on the tragic loss of your son. There will be a
memorial service for Cadet Albert this evening in the west garden. It
has been suggested that we should cancel the graduation ceremonies in
the light of what's happened. Commander Albert and I have discussed
this and we've agreed that commencement should go forward as planned.
The cadets should know that even after a tragedy like this, there are
still duties to perform and life continues. Thank you all for coming. 
(Picard gets up and walks over to Brand) 
BRAND: It's good to see you again, Captain. I wish it were under better
circumstances. 
PICARD: This is an unhappy way to begin commencement. If you require
any assistance, then the Enterprise is at your disposal. 
BRAND: I'm sure we'll be able to conduct the investigation, but thank
you for your offer. 
[Wesley's room]

(Wesley is using a resistance device to strengthen
his broken arm. There's a knock on the door. He goes to open it by
turning the handle!) 
CRUSHER: Wes. I was so worried about you. 
PICARD: How are you feeling, Wesley? 
WESLEY: Not bad. The arm's a little sore. 
CRUSHER: We were very sorry to hear about Joshua. 
PICARD: Would you like to talk about it? 
WESLEY: No. I don't think so. No, thank you. I know you're trying to be
helpful, sir, but it seems like that's all I've talked about for the
last two days. I don't want to go through it again. 
PICARD: I understand. But I just want you to know I'm available if you
should change your mind. 
WESLEY: Thank you sir. 
(another knock on the door) 
WESLEY: Hi. 
LOCARNO: Hi. 
(enter Robert Duncan McNeill, who will become Tom Paris in Voyager) 
LOCARNO: Captain, sir. 
PICARD: At ease, Cadet. 
WESLEY: This is my squadron leader, Nicholas Locarno. This is Captain
Jean-Luc Picard of the Enterprise. My mother, Doctor Beverly Crusher. 
LOCARNO: Hello, Doctor. 
CRUSHER: Hello. 
LOCARNO: Captain Picard. 
PICARD: Mister Locarno. 
LOCARNO: I came by to see if Wes had healed up all right. 
CRUSHER: And how are you feeling, Nicholas? 
LOCARNO: I'm okay. I just never lost anyone under my command before. 
PICARD: I'm afraid that never gets easier. 
WESLEY: Captain, Mom, will you excuse us please? Nick and I have some
things we need to talk about. 
CRUSHER: Of course. Let me know if you need anything. 
WESLEY: I will. 
PICARD: I'll see you at the inquiry. Good to meet you, Mister Locarno. 
LOCARNO: You too, sir. 
(Picard and Beverly leave) 
LOCARNO: The inquiry is scheduled for fifteen hundred hours. Are you
ready? 
WESLEY: I think so. 
LOCARNO: Don't worry about it, Wes. Everything's going to be all right
so long as we stick together.

