LOCARNO PICARD WESLEY
longer calm performed light ll aboard decide problem officer

[Ready room]

PICARD: Come. 
WESLEY: Captain. 
PICARD: Can you tell me what manoeuvre this is? 
(on the PADD we see five ships go into a circle, cross each other's
paths and light up a five pointed star) 
WESLEY: It's a Kolvoord Starburst, sir. 
PICARD: Five ships crossing within ten metres of each other and
igniting their plasma trails. One of the most spectacular and difficult
demonstrations of precision flying. It hasn't been performed at the
Academy team in over a hundred years. Do you know why? 
WESLEY: It was banned by the Academy following a training accident,
sir. 
PICARD: An accident in which all five cadets lost their lives. I think
that Nicholas Locarno wanted to end his Academy career in a blaze of
glory. That he convinced the four of you to learn the Kolvoord
Starburst for the commencement demonstration. If it worked,
you would thrill the assembled guests and Locarno would graduate as a
living legend. Only it didn't work, and Joshua Albert paid the price.
Am I correct? Cadet, I asked you a question. Am I correct? 
WESLEY: I choose not to answer, sir. 
PICARD: You choose not to answer? But you've already given an answer to
the inquiry, and that answer was a lie. 
WESLEY: I said the accident occurred after the loop. It did. 
PICARD: What you neglected to mention was that following the loop your
team attempted a manoeuvre that was the direct cause of the crash. You
told the truth up to a point. But a lie of omission is still a lie. Do
you remember the day you first came aboard this ship? Your mother
brought you on the Bridge. 
WESLEY: Yes. 
PICARD: You even sat in my chair. I was annoyed. Presumptuous child
playing on my ship. But I never forgot how you already knew every
control, every display. You behaved as though you belonged on the
Bridge. And then later when I decided to make you an acting ensign, I
was convinced you could be an outstanding officer. I've never
questioned that conviction, until now. The first duty of every
Starfleet officer is to the truth. Whether it's scientific truth, or
historical truth, or personal truth. It is the guiding principle upon
which Starfleet is based. If you can't find it within yourself to stand
up and tell the truth about what happened you don't deserve to wear
that uniform. I'm going to make this simple for you, Mister Crusher.
Either you come forward and tell Admiral Brand what really took place,
or I will. 
WESLEY: Captain 
PICARD: Dismissed.

[Wesley's room]

LOCARNO: Your message said it was urgent. 
WESLEY: They know, Nick. They know what we did. 
LOCARNO: Calm down. Calm down. Now tell me exactly what happened. 
WESLEY: Captain Picard called me to the Enterprise. when I got there he
told me that he knows.
The Kolvoord manoeuvre, the cover up, everything. He said that if I
didn't come forward and tell the truth now, he would. 
LOCARNO: You said he'd figured it out. Does he have any evidence? 
WESLEY: No, but he knew exactly how it happened. 
LOCARNO: Captain Picard doesn't know anything. He has a theory. So let
him tell the inquiry what he thinks happened. They'll ask us, is it
true? We'll say, no, sir. There's no evidence, so there's no case.
We'll get off with a reprimand. 
WESLEY: I can't call Captain Picard a liar. 
LOCARNO: Wesley, we have to hang on just a little longer, then this
will all be over. 
WESLEY: It's wrong, Nick. 
LOCARNO: Wesley. 
WESLEY: No. I'm going to tell them what happened. 
LOCARNO: You're going to tell them what happened? You? Alone? Are going
to decide what happens to me, to Sito, to Jean? You're going to decide
that? 
WESLEY: I'm not going to lie to them again, Nick. I can't live with it.

LOCARNO: You can't lie to them. You can't live with this. You have to
tell them what happened. Who the hell are you? 
WESLEY: Nick! 
LOCARNO: You're going to turn us in? 
WESLEY: Now wait a minute. 
LOCARNO: No, you wait a minute. He got to you, didn't he? Picard told
you some big story about duty and honour. It must've been a pretty good
speech to make you turn your back on your friends. 
WESLEY: We're Starfleet cadets. We have a duty to the truth. 
LOCARNO: What about your duty to your friends? I got you on this team.
I gave you a chance when there were upperclassmen waiting in line. I
said, He won't let us down. He was on the Enterprise. He knows what
it's like to trust somebody with his life. I guess I was wrong. 
WESLEY: If we all come forward together and tell Admiral Brand 
LOCARNO: We don't want to come forward. Sito, Jean and me, we don't
have a problem with this. But if you do, then resign your appointment
to the Academy and walk away. Don't make us pay for your guilty
conscience. 
WESLEY: You'd let me do that? You'd let me throw my career away just to
save your neck? 
LOCARNO: To save the team. That's more important than you, and it's
more important than me. And if I was in your place I'd do it without
hesitation. But that's me.

