ALBERT LOCARNO WESLEY HAJAR SITO
count everybody mechanics accident ease able tell turn haven

[Wesley's room]

SITO: You shouldn't have said it, Nick. Josh wasn't
responsible for what happened. 
LOCARNO: I had to do something. 
WESLEY: You said we wouldn't have to lie to them. We all agreed not to
lie to them. 
LOCARNO: I didn't lie. Everything I said was the truth. 
WESLEY: The accident was not Josh's fault. 
LOCARNO: Look, he was my friend too, Wes. I worked to get him on this
team. But the truth is, he panicked. 
WESLEY: We don't know that. 
LOCARNO: Of course we do. None of us has wanted to say it out loud, but
we've all had the same thought. Haven't we? 
HAJAR: He must have pulled away too soon. I think he got scared. 
LOCARNO: Sito? 
(she nods) 
LOCARNO: Wes, I know you want to protect his memory, We all do. But we
have to look out for ourselves now. What do you want us to do, walk in
and tell them everything that happened? 
SITO: We might as well turn in our uniforms and start packing our bags.

LOCARNO: Are we ready for that? We'll take this one step at a time.
This is the preliminary report from your flight recorder.
It was so badly damaged in the crash, that the lab could only retrieve
a third of the total telemetry on the recorder. And all of it is before
the collision. There's no problem here. 
WESLEY: I don't know if I can do this, Nick. 
SITO: You don't have to lie. Just don't volunteer any new information. 
LOCARNO: The first night I met you, Wes, I knew I wanted you on this
squad. You, more than any of the rest, would understand what it means
to be able to count on someone, because you've been out there, putting
yourself on the line. You know you've got to be able to count on the
people on your team, because your life is in their hands, and their
lives are in yours. We made a promise to each other right in the
beginning, that we'd stick together. We were Nova Squadron. Nobody else
could say that. And even after we graduated, we'd try to get posted to
the same duty. We were going to be a team for a long time. Josh can't
be a part of those plans anymore, but I think he would still want us to
be a team. What do you think?

[Academy hearing room]

(Wesley is checking the data from his flight
recorder against the display on the screen) 
ALBERT: Mister Crusher? 
WESLEY: Sir. 
ALBERT: At ease. Am I interrupting? 
WESLEY: No. I was just going over my deposition for tomorrow. 
ALBERT: They told me you'd be here. I found this in Josh's room. I
think it belongs to you. 
WESLEY: Our ski trip. Josh and I went to Calgary last month. He forgot
his sweater so he borrowed one of mine. 
ALBERT: He told me you helped him with his classes. 
WESLEY: A little. He only needed help in statistical mechanics. 
ALBERT: If Josh had a weakness, it was mathematics. 
WESLEY: No, he could do it. He just didn't like to. 
ALBERT: His mother and I thought he'd never get out of calculus. Then
he found out what the Academy entrance requirements were like. That
turned him around. He stayed after class, got a tutor. He really worked
hard. Never gave up on anything. And he had a lot of respect for you,
and everybody on the team. I realise it was his fault. That everybody
could have been killed. And I want to say that, I want to say I'm
sorry. I'm sorry that he let you down.

