SITO PICARD BRAND SATELK HAJAR LOCARNO CRUSHER
saying diamond yeager bajoran better nick vulcan disturbed fine

[Wesley's room]

(Locarno is inspecting his troops) 
LOCARNO: You nervous? 
SITO: (a Bajoran woman) No. Yes. 
LOCARNO: That's okay. So am I. But we're going to be all right. We've
got some tough times ahead but we've always come through for each
other. Whatever happens, I want you all to know that leading this team
has been the high point of my years at the Academy. No one could have
asked for a better team, or better friends. Let's go.

[Academy hearing room]

(There's a bigger audience as Nick stands by a
diagram of Saturn and its moon's orbits is on the screen) 
LOCARNO: At this point, we accelerated and executed a starboard turn of
twenty seven degrees. We came out of the turn on course for Titan. 
BRAND: And you were still in the lead position? 
LOCARNO: Yes, sir. 
BRAND: Continue. 
LOCARNO: As we entered Titan's gravitational sphere, I gave the signal
to tighten up and move into a diamond slot formation. Remaining in the
diamond formation, we executed a low apogee turn around Titan then
began a z-plus twenty five degree climb in preparation for a Yeager
loop. 
(named for Chuck Yeager, who broke the sound barrier in 1947) 
LOCARNO: Approximately nine seconds later, Cadet Albert's ship collided
with Cadet Hajar's. We had less than two seconds to
activate our emergency transporters and beam to the evac stations at
Mimas. Everyone made it except Josh. 
BRAND: Thank you, Mister Locarno. Cadet Hajar. 
(the young woman stands up) 
BRAND: As team navigator, you filed a flight plan with the Academy
Range Officer before the exercise. Correct? 
HAJAR: Yes, sir. 
BRAND: Did Nova Squadron deviate from that flight plan after you
entered the Saturn range? 
HAJAR: No, sir. 
BRAND: Then how do you explain the fact that the low apogee turn around
Titan was at least two thousand kilometres closer to the moon than
indicated in your plan? 
HAJAR: We were still within flight safety parameters, sir. 
BRAND: That was not my question, Cadet. 
HAJAR: We had discussed changing our approach after I filed the flight
plan. The final decision was made en route to Saturn. I didn't consider
it significant enough to mention here. I apologise for the confusion,
sir. I should have been more precise. 
SATELK: (a Vulcan) Did you see Mister Albert's ship break formation
before it collided with your ship? 
HAJAR: No, sir. My first indications of trouble was when my proximity
alarm went off. 
SATELK: You may be seated. Did any of you see the collision take place?

LOCARNO: No, sir. 
SATELK: Cadet Sito, you were in the tail position, therefore you should
have seen any sign of trouble from Cadet Albert. Yet you saw nothing? 
SITO: That is correct, sir. 
SATELK: Did your attention falter? 
SITO: No, sir. I was flying solely on sensor readings at the time. I
did not have any visual contact with Cadet Albert's ship when he broke
formation. 
SATELK: Sensor readings? 
(a murmur goes around the room) 
CRUSHER: What's wrong? 
PICARD: Well, it's unusual to fly on sensors alone in this type of
manoeuvre. The pilot relies on visual clues from the other ships to
maintain formation. 
BRAND: If you were flying on sensors alone, perhaps you could tell us
the orientation of his ship before the collision. 
SITO: I don't know, sir. 
BRAND: You were flying a ship, travelling eighty thousand kph, with
Cadet Albert's ship less than ten metres away and you don't know what
his orientation was? 
SITO: I don't remember, sir. 
LOCARNO: Sir, may I? 
BRAND: Go ahead. 
LOCARNO: Admiral, Josh was a good pilot but lately he'd been having
difficulties. He'd get nervous during close fly-bys and pull away in
the final seconds. His formation flying was a little erratic. 
BRAND: And you didn't report this to anyone? 
LOCARNO: No, sir, I didn't. We'd flown together a long time. I thought
he could handle it if I gave him a chance. I was wrong. 
BRAND: Then you are saying that the accident was Cadet Albert's fault? 
LOCARNO: I think Josh got frightened and tried to pull out of the turn
prematurely, and then crashed into Cadet Hajar. Josh was our friend. We
didn't want him to be remembered as someone who panicked. 
BRAND: Please be seated. I'm very disturbed by what I've heard here
today. By your own admission, you allowed your teammate to fly when you
knew he was having difficulties maintaining formation. That
demonstrates a serious lack of judgment. I am also disturbed by the
fact that you did not come forward with this information immediately.
We should have the first data from Mister Crusher's flight recorder
tonight. We will reconvene at thirteen hundred hours tomorrow. 
LOCARNO: Everything's fine. Trust me.

