PICARD DATA LAFORGE WESLEY
paths limits performing correct place officer simulate check starfleet

[Engineering]

(Picard and Crusher enter) 
PICARD: Report. 
LAFORGE: Nothing conclusive. We do know that the collision occurred
about four seconds after the satellite images were recorded, but we
still don't know how the ships got into the new formation or why the
crash occurred. 
DATA: We unsuccessfully tried fifty three different computational
models in an effort to simulate the movements of the Nova Squadron just
prior to the crash. 
LAFORGE: There're just too many variables to take into consideration.
Speed, attitude, course. 
PICARD: Did Wesley's flight recorder indicate that there was anything
unusual about the ship or the way it was operating? 
LAFORGE: The starboard power flow was fluctuating. 
DATA: However it was well within operational limits. 
LAFORGE: Fluidic pressure in the landing struts was low, but I don't
know what difference that would make. 
DATA: We did find that Wesley opened his coolant interlock just before
beginning the manoeuvre around Titan. 
LAFORGE: That is a bit unusual. Normally the interlock is closed unless
you're performing a check on the engine coolant levels. But there's no
evidence Wesley was performing that sort of check. 
PICARD: Filling the primary coolant tanks requires an open interlock
but that can only be performed in a maintenance bay. Is there any other
reason for opening the valve? 
LAFORGE: It's the first step in purging the plasma exhaust. 
DATA: That procedure would be extremely hazardous while the ship was in
flight. 
LAFORGE: Yeah, the engine would probably ignite the plasma. 
PICARD: Ignite the plasma. That's exactly what they were trying to do.

[Ready room]

PICARD: Come. 
WESLEY: Captain. 
PICARD: Can you tell me what manoeuvre this is? 
(on the PADD we see five ships go into a circle, cross each other's
paths and light up a five pointed star) 
WESLEY: It's a Kolvoord Starburst, sir. 
PICARD: Five ships crossing within ten metres of each other and
igniting their plasma trails. One of the most spectacular and difficult
demonstrations of precision flying. It hasn't been performed at the
Academy team in over a hundred years. Do you know why? 
WESLEY: It was banned by the Academy following a training accident,
sir. 
PICARD: An accident in which all five cadets lost their lives. I think
that Nicholas Locarno wanted to end his Academy career in a blaze of
glory. That he convinced the four of you to learn the Kolvoord
Starburst for the commencement demonstration. If it worked,
you would thrill the assembled guests and Locarno would graduate as a
living legend. Only it didn't work, and Joshua Albert paid the price.
Am I correct? Cadet, I asked you a question. Am I correct? 
WESLEY: I choose not to answer, sir. 
PICARD: You choose not to answer? But you've already given an answer to
the inquiry, and that answer was a lie. 
WESLEY: I said the accident occurred after the loop. It did. 
PICARD: What you neglected to mention was that following the loop your
team attempted a manoeuvre that was the direct cause of the crash. You
told the truth up to a point. But a lie of omission is still a lie. Do
you remember the day you first came aboard this ship? Your mother
brought you on the Bridge. 
WESLEY: Yes. 
PICARD: You even sat in my chair. I was annoyed. Presumptuous child
playing on my ship. But I never forgot how you already knew every
control, every display. You behaved as though you belonged on the
Bridge. And then later when I decided to make you an acting ensign, I
was convinced you could be an outstanding officer. I've never
questioned that conviction, until now. The first duty of every
Starfleet officer is to the truth. Whether it's scientific truth, or
historical truth, or personal truth. It is the guiding principle upon
which Starfleet is based. If you can't find it within yourself to stand
up and tell the truth about what happened you don't deserve to wear
that uniform. I'm going to make this simple for you, Mister Crusher.
Either you come forward and tell Admiral Brand what really took place,
or I will. 
WESLEY: Captain 
PICARD: Dismissed.

