RIKER LAFORGE WORF PICARD LAFORGE [OC] COMPUTER DATA
activate like controllers beam zero bypass lose security nitrium

[Engineering]

LAFORGE: The parasites must've gotten into the
primary warp controllers, Captain. Trying to do a bypass patch to
isolate the backup controllers but it looks like warp six is about the
best I'm going to be able to give you. 
[Bridge]

PICARD: At that speed, Mister La Forge, there won't
be a ship left to reach the Pelloris Field. Do what you have to. 
LAFORGE [OC]: Working on it, sir. 
DATA: Captain, we're losing life support on decks eleven and twelve. 
PICARD: Mister Worf, have security evacuate all personnel from those
decks. 
WORF: Aye, sir. 
[Engineering]

LAFORGE: Engineering to Bridge. We've got warp six
point five but I don't know how much more coaxing 
[Bridge]

LAFORGE: We can do here. 
PICARD: We need more speed than that, Commander. 
LAFORGE [OC]: The matter-antimatter 
[Engineering]

LAFORGE: Injectors are failing. I'm rerouting to
secondary injector power now. Watch the antimatter containment for any
system failure.

[Bridge]

RIKER: Atmospheric systems are down twenty seven
percent. We're going below tolerable oxygen limits. 
WORF: We must evacuate decks twenty through twenty four, Captain. 
PICARD: Make it so. Shut down life support to those decks. 
RIKER: Direct all evacuees to decks nine and ten. 
PICARD: Divert emergency life support to those decks. 
DATA: Aye, sir. 
PICARD: Time to asteroid field? 
DATA: If we maintain our current speed, two hours, twenty three
minutes, sir. 
PICARD: Mister Data, the rest of us may lose consciousness. If we do,
it will be your job to execute the plan as discussed. 
DATA: Aye, sir. 
(The Enterprise arrives at the asteroid field. Data is the only one
awake and alert) 
COMPUTER: Structural integrity of the dilithium chamber is at thirty
four percent. Estimated breach in one minute. 
DATA: Computer, transfer power from warp engines to life support. 
COMPUTER: Transfer complete. 
DATA: Activate Bussard collector. 
COMPUTER: Activated. Breach of dilithium chamber in forty seconds. 
DATA: Reconfigure hydrogen plasma mixture to include thirty percent
nitrium. 
COMPUTER: Mixture complete. 
DATA: Project emitter beam, heading zero two four mark zero four one. 
(shimmering silver travels along the beam) 
COMPUTER: Structural integrity of the dilithium chamber is at twenty
eight percent and holding. 
(the lights come back up and people start to wake up) 
PICARD: Mister Data? 
DATA: The plan was successful, sir. 
PICARD: Well done. Mister Worf, coordinate your teams with Doctor
Crusher and Commander La Forge. Assess damage and injury. 
WORF: Aye, sir.

Captain's log, stardate 45733.6. Temporary repairs
to the ship have been completed. Our attention now turns to matters of
a more festive nature.

