TROI WORF PICARD RIKER LWAXANA ALEXANDER
sound weep utterly married continue want tall trust think

[Ten Forward]

LWAXANA: You know, with just a bit of redecorating
here and there, this Ten Forward room should make a very nice wedding
hall. 
TROI: I beg your pardon? 
LWAXANA: Where else, my little one, but here amongst all my good
friends and in the presence of my adored daughter. 
TROI: Mother, where did you, when did you meet this man? Who is he? I
mean, marriage? When did all this happen? 
LWAXANA: My poor, plodding, little Deanna, with her questions,
questions, questions. Wherever did you inherit such pedestrian genes?
What matters, my little one, is that your mother's happy. 
TROI: Mother, if you're happy, then I'm happy for you. I only asked who
he is, and where you met him. Those are not unusual questions. 
LWAXANA: He's such a wonderful man, and he has such good breeding, I
tell you, he's absolute perfection. 
TROI: Who is he? 
LWAXANA: He's Campio, Third Minister to the Conference Of Judges on the
planet Kostolain. Royalty, my little one, naturally. 
TROI: Naturally. I didn't know you'd ever been to Kostolain. Or was he
on some diplomatic mission to Betazed? 
LWAXANA: Well, neither, actually. You see, we haven't exactly met yet,
really. Oh, but the profiles we've exchanged. Why, they're in such
accord that you could weep, my little one. You would weep at the
harmony between us. 
TROI: Mother, don't you think it would be a good idea if you actually
met the man you're going to marry before committing to spend the rest
of
your life with him? 
LWAXANA: Deanna, I love you, but you do make everything sound like an
epitaph. 
(Worf and Alexander enter, still discussing the contract) 
ALEXANDER: I don't want to agree. 
WORF: But you have to agree. That is what an agreement is. Counsellor
Troi, excuse the intrusion, but we're having some difficulty
drawing up our contract. Mrs. Troi. 
ALEXANDER: He's not fair! 
WORF: The boy is unreasonable. 
LWAXANA: Well, of course he's unreasonable. He's a child. And such a
child. You know, making little boys reasonable only gives them pimples.

TROI: Alexander, this is my mother. 
LWAXANA: Alexander! What a wonderful name. You know, I once knew a
tall, handsome warrior named Alexander. Oh, he utterly adored me. We
went everywhere, simply everywhere. Have you been anywhere yet?
Contract? What contract? 
TROI: Between father and son. A fair and balanced way to achieve a
mutual sense of order. 
LWAXANA: Well, how ghastly for you. And you're doing this to your own
child, Mister Woof? 
TROI: Mother! 
WORF: It is Worf, Madam. 
LWAXANA: Contracts are usually between people who don't really trust
one another. A child who is trusted becomes worthy of that trust. 
TROI: Mother, will you kindly stay out of this? 
LWAXANA: And if he does not perform his contractual duties, I assume he
will be chastised? 
WORF: He will be sanctioned, yes. 
LWAXANA: And if you fail to perform your duties, what is the child
supposed to do about it? 
TROI: Mother, will you please 
WORF: I? Not perform my duty?! 
LWAXANA: Alexander. Now life's true gift is the capacity to enjoy
enjoyment. Now, have I arrived too late, or can you still smile?

[Corridor]

PICARD: Married? She's getting married? 
RIKER: Yes. If we stay on our present course, we should rendezvous with
her intended groom in thirty one hours. 
PICARD: I will not continue have that woman continuing to use this ship
for her convenience, simply because her daughter happens to be one of
my officers. 
RIKER: Apparently, Deanna being on board is only part of the reason. 
PICARD: The other reason being? 
RIKER: She thinks the honour of giving away the bride should fall on
you. 
PICARD: Permission for an on-board wedding is granted, Number One.
Nothing would please me more than to give away Mrs. Troi. 
(as they walk on, something moves along a bulkhead joist)

