RIKER LAFORGE WORF PICARD LWAXANA CHIEF DATA ALEXANDER

[Lwaxana's quarters]

(Lwaxana has changed to white hair to match the
silver grey long-sleeved throat to floor covering dress with bustle.
Mister Homn looks on silently, as usual) 
LWAXANA: Bad enough having to wear anything at my own wedding, but
this? Perhaps if we lower the bodice? Raise the hemline, then. What a
constant joy you are. 
(doorbell) 
LWAXANA: Mister Homn. 
(Alexander is less than half Homn's height) 
LWAXANA: Alexander! My little warrior, come here. Come on. Give me a
great big hug. Now, you're not escaping another appointment, are you? 
ALEXANDER: No, ma'am. 
LWAXANA: Well, I suppose eventually we all have to live up to our
obligations. Well now, tell me. What brings you here to brighten my
day? 
ALEXANDER: I wanted to say I'm sorry if I got you in any trouble. 
LWAXANA: That's very sweet, dear, but I really wasn't in any trouble.
Until I saw this dress. Ugly, isn't it? 
ALEXANDER: What's it for? 
LWAXANA: I'm getting married. 
ALEXANDER: Why? 
LWAXANA: Are you sure my daughter didn't send you? Just a joke. People
get married because they want to spend their lives with someone. 
ALEXANDER: Their whole life? They must have to like that person a lot. 
LWAXANA: Well, if you're young and lucky, it'll be someone you like a
lot, yes. And if you're older. 
ALEXANDER: Are you very old? 
LWAXANA: I'm alone, Alex. And when you do get older and can no longer
pick and choose from whatever may come your way, then you do what we
call compromise. It keeps you from being afraid.

[Bridge]

DATA: We have traced the failure to a data net
interface which routes replicator selections to the correct
subprocessors. 
LAFORGE: When we opened the panel, we discovered that the interface had
been transformed into a gelatinous material that we haven't been able
to identify. 
(the ship shakes and alarms go off) 
WORF: We have an intermittent failure of the inertial damping system. 
PICARD: Take us out of warp, Ensign. 
RIKER: Primary attitude control has failed. Going to secondary systems.

DATA: We have lost helm control, sir. 
RIKER: Try a manual bypass of the damping systems. 
DATA: Aye, sir. 
PICARD: Backup generators. 
LAFORGE: Coming online now. 
PICARD: How long before we regain attitude control? 
LAFORGE: We're almost there. 
(the shaking stops) 
RIKER: Ensign, put us back on course. Let's stay at impulse for now. 
PICARD: Did something hit us, Mister Worf? 
WORF: Negative, sir. 
PICARD: The inertial dampers shouldn't fail without kicking in the
automatic bypass. I want to know what went wrong. Analysis in thirty
minutes. 
[Observation lounge]

(Geordi puts a container of gloop on the table) 
LAFORGE: The same thing that happened to the replicator happened to the
stabiliser. The transfers in both systems were turned into this. 
RIKER: Some kind of corrosion? 
DATA: We have not yet identified the substance, Commander. 
LAFORGE: Whatever it is, it looks like there's been a conversion
process, transforming some of the metal into gelatinous residue. But
what caused it is a mystery. 
PICARD: Replicators and stabilisers. Two totally unrelated systems. 
LAFORGE: Yes, sir. And we still don't know why the sensors didn't pick
up the problems. 
RIKER: Let's run a mass spectrometer analysis and find out what this
stuff is. 
CHIEF [OC]: Transporter room one to Captain Picard. Minister Campio is
beaming on board, sir. 
PICARD: I'll be right there. The bridegroom.

