JUGGLER LAFORGE RIKER [OC] LWAXANA PICARD DATA ALEXANDER
set energy bride wrong computer probably progress concentration cases

[Holodeck - Shiralea]

(the Juggler is unhappy) 
ALEXANDER: What happened? 
JUGGLER: I was just juggling and I happened to catch one in my mouth.
It tasted good, so I ate it. Before I knew it, I'd eaten up every one
of my worlds. It never occurred to me that once they were gone, I'd
have nothing left to juggle. If you ever have a world, plan ahead.
Don't eat it. 
LWAXANA: Well, now. Almost time to get back. 
ALEXANDER: Are you sad? 
LWAXANA: Of course not. I'm about to be a bride. 
ALEXANDER: You know that man you're going to marry? He would never come
and take a mud bath, would he. 
LWAXANA: Oh, he might. Probably not. 
ALEXANDER: You know, maybe this would be a good time to get one of
those little people that live inside of you to come out and tell you
what to do, or help you, or something. 
LWAXANA: Alexander, what are you talking about? 
ALEXANDER: I'm sorry. 
LWAXANA: No. No, don't you dare be sorry. 
(she notices the grid appearing through the illusion) 
ALEXANDER: What's wrong? 
LWAXANA: Come along, Alexander. Let's not leave everyone waiting for
us.

[Engineering]

LAFORGE: Once we saw that photonic trail moving
through the wall, we realised we must be dealing with a metal parasite
of some kind. 
DATA: We believe the parasites came through the ship's hull after we
destroyed the asteroid near Tessen Three. 
PICARD: Are they attacking anything other than nitrium alloy? 
LAFORGE: No, sir, not that we can tell. But we've got nitrium
everywhere. The computers, the life support, the ventilation, the
engines, even the dilithium chamber. 
PICARD: Mister Data, the asteroid we destroyed. That was rich in
nitrium. 
DATA: Aye, sir. 
PICARD: And that asteroid came from the Pelloris Field. If the rest of
that field is rich in nitrium, it would make a natural feeding ground. 
LAFORGE: We should think about going back there. The parasites could
possibly be lured back to the asteroids for a meal that's more
appealing than we are. 
PICARD: Mister Data, how long to the field? 
DATA: At warp nine, five hours twenty minutes, sir. 
PICARD: Picard to the Bridge 
RIKER [OC]: Riker here, sir. 
PICARD: Set a course for the Pelloris asteroid field, warp nine. 
RIKER [OC]: Aye, sir. 
DATA: Captain, with our sensors unable to detect the parasites and
given the speed with which they appear to be moving through the ship 
PICARD: We may not have five hours and twenty minutes. I'm aware of
that. How can we slow them down? 
DATA: In several cases, an exanogen gas barrier has been known to slow
the progress of metal parasites. 
PICARD: They don't like cold, eh? Make it so. 
LAFORGE: The problem is finding them. As soon as we spot an energy
fluctuation, they've already consumed all the nitrium and have moved
on. 
(the lights flicker) 
LAFORGE: Primary power systems are going down. I've rerouted to the
secondary generators. 
PICARD: Inform the Bridge. Mister Data, with me.

[Turbolift]

PICARD: Bridge. Commander, do you have any
suggestions on how we could encourage the parasites to leave the ship
once we reach the Pelloris Field? 
DATA: If we reconfigure a particle beam with a high concentration of
nitrium, and project it toward one of the asteroids. 
PICARD: Then they would follow the beam like a trail of breadcrumbs.
Very well. 
(gloop is dribbling down the wall) 
DATA: Turbolift velocity is beginning to fluctuate, Captain. 
PICARD: Computer, stop at next level. Computer, acknowledge. 
(the turbolift stops but the doors don't open, so Data forces them) 
DATA: We have reached the bridge, sir.

