PICARD RIKER DATA LAFORGE WORF

[Engineering]

LAFORGE: Once we saw that photonic trail moving
through the wall, we realised we must be dealing with a metal parasite
of some kind. 
DATA: We believe the parasites came through the ship's hull after we
destroyed the asteroid near Tessen Three. 
PICARD: Are they attacking anything other than nitrium alloy? 
LAFORGE: No, sir, not that we can tell. But we've got nitrium
everywhere. The computers, the life support, the ventilation, the
engines, even the dilithium chamber. 
PICARD: Mister Data, the asteroid we destroyed. That was rich in
nitrium. 
DATA: Aye, sir. 
PICARD: And that asteroid came from the Pelloris Field. If the rest of
that field is rich in nitrium, it would make a natural feeding ground. 
LAFORGE: We should think about going back there. The parasites could
possibly be lured back to the asteroids for a meal that's more
appealing than we are. 
PICARD: Mister Data, how long to the field? 
DATA: At warp nine, five hours twenty minutes, sir. 
PICARD: Picard to the Bridge 
RIKER [OC]: Riker here, sir. 
PICARD: Set a course for the Pelloris asteroid field, warp nine. 
RIKER [OC]: Aye, sir. 
DATA: Captain, with our sensors unable to detect the parasites and
given the speed with which they appear to be moving through the ship 
PICARD: We may not have five hours and twenty minutes. I'm aware of
that. How can we slow them down? 
DATA: In several cases, an exanogen gas barrier has been known to slow
the progress of metal parasites. 
PICARD: They don't like cold, eh? Make it so. 
LAFORGE: The problem is finding them. As soon as we spot an energy
fluctuation, they've already consumed all the nitrium and have moved
on. 
(the lights flicker) 
LAFORGE: Primary power systems are going down. I've rerouted to the
secondary generators. 
PICARD: Inform the Bridge. Mister Data, with me.

[Turbolift]

PICARD: Bridge. Commander, do you have any
suggestions on how we could encourage the parasites to leave the ship
once we reach the Pelloris Field? 
DATA: If we reconfigure a particle beam with a high concentration of
nitrium, and project it toward one of the asteroids. 
PICARD: Then they would follow the beam like a trail of breadcrumbs.
Very well. 
(gloop is dribbling down the wall) 
DATA: Turbolift velocity is beginning to fluctuate, Captain. 
PICARD: Computer, stop at next level. Computer, acknowledge. 
(the turbolift stops but the doors don't open, so Data forces them) 
DATA: We have reached the bridge, sir.

[Bridge]

PICARD: Report, Number One. 
RIKER: Ventilation and life support are failing at random spots all
over the ship. 
WORF: Captain, we've dropped to warp five point seven. 
PICARD: Picard to Engineering. 
LAFORGE [OC]: La Forge here. 
PICARD: What's happening, Mister La Forge? We're losing speed. 
