RIKER LAFORGE WORF PICARD COMPUTER DATA ERKO

[Bridge]

PICARD: At that speed, Mister La Forge, there won't
be a ship left to reach the Pelloris Field. Do what you have to. 
LAFORGE [OC]: Working on it, sir. 
DATA: Captain, we're losing life support on decks eleven and twelve. 
PICARD: Mister Worf, have security evacuate all personnel from those
decks. 
WORF: Aye, sir. 
[Engineering]

LAFORGE: Engineering to Bridge. We've got warp six
point five but I don't know how much more coaxing 
[Bridge]

LAFORGE: We can do here. 
PICARD: We need more speed than that, Commander. 
LAFORGE [OC]: The matter-antimatter 
[Engineering]

LAFORGE: Injectors are failing. I'm rerouting to
secondary injector power now. Watch the antimatter containment for any
system failure.

[Bridge]

RIKER: Atmospheric systems are down twenty seven
percent. We're going below tolerable oxygen limits. 
WORF: We must evacuate decks twenty through twenty four, Captain. 
PICARD: Make it so. Shut down life support to those decks. 
RIKER: Direct all evacuees to decks nine and ten. 
PICARD: Divert emergency life support to those decks. 
DATA: Aye, sir. 
PICARD: Time to asteroid field? 
DATA: If we maintain our current speed, two hours, twenty three
minutes, sir. 
PICARD: Mister Data, the rest of us may lose consciousness. If we do,
it will be your job to execute the plan as discussed. 
DATA: Aye, sir. 
(The Enterprise arrives at the asteroid field. Data is the only one
awake and alert) 
COMPUTER: Structural integrity of the dilithium chamber is at thirty
four percent. Estimated breach in one minute. 
DATA: Computer, transfer power from warp engines to life support. 
COMPUTER: Transfer complete. 
DATA: Activate Bussard collector. 
COMPUTER: Activated. Breach of dilithium chamber in forty seconds. 
DATA: Reconfigure hydrogen plasma mixture to include thirty percent
nitrium. 
COMPUTER: Mixture complete. 
DATA: Project emitter beam, heading zero two four mark zero four one. 
(shimmering silver travels along the beam) 
COMPUTER: Structural integrity of the dilithium chamber is at twenty
eight percent and holding. 
(the lights come back up and people start to wake up) 
PICARD: Mister Data? 
DATA: The plan was successful, sir. 
PICARD: Well done. Mister Worf, coordinate your teams with Doctor
Crusher and Commander La Forge. Assess damage and injury. 
WORF: Aye, sir.

Captain's log, stardate 45733.6. Temporary repairs
to the ship have been completed. Our attention now turns to matters of
a more festive nature.

[Ten Forward]

(Erko checks the corridor again) 
ERKO: (whispering to Campio) This is intolerable. 
RIKER: You'd think she'd at least get to her own wedding on time. 
(the doors open and Mister Homn smiles as Lwaxana arrives at her own
wedding, naked. Even if we do get a glimpse of the edge of the
underwear that Majel is actually wearing. Campio's jaw is on the
floor.) 
ERKO: Minister! Minister! This is infamous. Infamous! We leave
immediately! 
(Erko hauls Campio out of the room)

