RIKER CRUSHER WORF PICARD BRIAM QOL KAMALA

[Cargo bay]

(Qol is on his perch, scanning the glowing egg when
Worf and his team enter) 
WORF: What are you doing? 
(Qol looses his balance and falls, knocking a small barrel into the
'legs' of the egg. It falls in extreme slow motion and the golden glow
dissipates) 
QOL: This is a misunderstanding. I was looking for a barbershop.
Apparently I made an incorrect turn and 
(Picard, Briam and Riker enter) 
PICARD: Mister Worf? 
RIKER: Get him out of here. Confine them both to their quarters. Put a
guard on their door. 
(Worf, Qol and security leave) 
PICARD: What is happening? 
BRIAM: Emergence. 
(the egg finally vanishes and a beautiful woman remains. She stands up
gracefully, smiles and walks straight to Picard) 
KAMALA: I am for you, Alrik of Valt. 
BRIAM: No, Kamala. This is not Alrik. This is Captain Jean-Luc Picard
of the Federation Starship Enterprise. 
KAMALA: That explains why you don't look at all like your holographs. I
apologise, Captain. As an empath, I could sense your authority. I
assumed you were Chancellor Alrik. 
PICARD: I'm afraid I require an explanation, Ambassador. 
KAMALA: As do I, Ambassador. Why have I been brought out of stasis
prematurely? 
BRIAM: It was an accident. This is quite complicated. Perhaps you and I

KAMALA: It is not complicated at all, Briam, and the Captain has no
tolerance for prevarication. I'm a gift, to Alrik of Valt. 
RIKER: You mean you're using this ship to transport a sentient being as
property? 
BRIAM: Not as property, as a gift, and I was concerned that you might
not entirely understand. 
PICARD: Your concern was justified, Ambassador. 
KAMALA: You're angry. Why? 
PICARD: There is a provision in the Federation Constitution that
protects an individual's fundamental rights. Now once you were brought
aboard this ship 
KAMALA: You're coming to my rescue. What a kind and generous purpose.
But Captain, I do not need to be rescued. 
BRIAM: Kamala is the key to peace between our two worlds. 
RIKER: Why? 
KAMALA: In our history there's a woman known as Garuth, who was loved
by the brothers Krios and Valt with such passion that an empire fell. 
BRIAM: And the wars began when Krios kidnapped Garuth and took her to
our planet. 
KAMALA: Like her, I'm an empathic metamorph. The first female metamorph
born in my world for over a hundred years. 
PICARD: A metamorph? 
KAMALA: A mutant. A biological curiosity, if you will. With the ability
to sense what a potential mate wants, what he needs, what gives him the
greatest pleasure and then to become that for him. 
RIKER: You mean you change according to whatever man you're with? 
KAMALA: Until I reach the stage of bonding, when I must imprint upon
myself the requirements of one man, to serve as his perfect partner in
life. 
BRIAM: You see, male metamorphs are somewhat common, but females are
born only once in seven generations. So obviously they are greatly
sought after as mates. 
RIKER: Which explains the Ferengi's interest. 
BRIAM: This mating to Alrik was arranged sine her birth by the leaders
of both worlds, in the hopes of restoring peace. 
PICARD: You do this of your own accord? 
KAMALA: It is my sole purpose in life. 
PICARD: Commander Riker, escort her to quarters. There's no need for
you to travel in the cargo bay. 
BRIAM: Kamala, remain in your room. I will speak to you shortly.

[Corridor]

RIKER: Why were you in stasis? 
KAMALA: Metamorphs have a long and complex sexual maturing process. I
am in the Finiis'ral, the third and final stage. It can be an
uncomfortable transition Not only for me, but for the men around me. 
RIKER: In what way? 
KAMALA: My body is producing an unusually elevated level of what you
would call pheromones. The effect can be quite provocative. Perhaps you
sense it? 
RIKER: Ah, unfortunately, I'm not an empath. 
KAMALA: Oh, I think you are more empathic than you admit. At least when
it comes to women. 
RIKER: I think you have me at a disadvantage. 
[Kamala's quarters]

RIKER: This is the comm. panel, the replicator. You
can lower the lights on a verbal command. If you have any questions you
can just ask the computer, 
(they kiss) 
RIKER: I'm beginning to sense the elevated pheromones you were
referring to. 
KAMALA: You were curious, weren't you? 
RIKER: Curious isn't exactly how I'd describe it. 
KAMALA: Do you know what's remarkable about empathic metamorphs? 
RIKER: You mean there's something even more remarkable about you? 
KAMALA: We learn so quickly what stimulates a man, that the second
time's even better than the first. 
(she initiates another long, long, kiss) 
RIKER: Listen. This has been educational but I make it a policy never
to open another man's gift. 
KAMALA: I know my role in history, Commander. But it's going to be a
long voyage. 
RIKER: It certainly is. We'll try to make you as comfortable as
possible.

[Corridor]

RIKER: Riker to bridge. If you need me, I'll be in
holodeck four.

[Picard's quarters]

(at breakfast, over croissant and fruit juice) 
CRUSHER: How can you simply deliver her like a courier into a life of
virtual prostitution. 
PICARD: Beverly! Arranged marriages have been the basis of political
alliances in many cultures, including our own. 
CRUSHER: I'm surprised at you. 
PICARD: She knows exactly what she's doing. 
CRUSHER: She has been conditioned since the day she was born to believe
it's perfectly acceptable to exist only to please men. 
PICARD: She was born to do this. 
CRUSHER: And bred by those people to seal a treaty with a seductive
coup de grace. 
PICARD: All right, fine, good, let's throw the Prime Directive to the
winds. Let's detain her against her will. Let's destroy any chance of
peace between these worlds. Let's interfere in their society, their
customs. 
CRUSHER: That slave trader who calls himself an ambassador, he has
confined her to her quarters. She is a virtual prisoner in there. 
PICARD: I didn't know that. 
CRUSHER: Well, it is your ship. Maybe there are a few things you should
find out about. 
PICARD: I'll talk to her about it. 
CRUSHER: Good. Lovely breakfast. 
PICARD: Indeed.

[Kamala's quarters]

KAMALA: Come in. 
(the door opens and Picard stands there) 
KAMALA: Captain Picard, what a delightful surprise. Come in. 
PICARD: Thank you. Are you comfortable? 
KAMALA: Reasonably, under the circumstances. 
PICARD: It has been brought to my attention that you have been told to
remain in here. 
KAMALA: That's true, I'm afraid. 
PICARD: Against your wishes. 
KAMALA: At the request of the Ambassador, who believes I might be
disruptive to your crew. 
PICARD: The performance of my crew is none of the Ambassador's
business. 
KAMALA: You care about my well being. Thank you, Captain. 
PICARD: I care about, I care about what happens on board my ship. 
KAMALA: Yes, I know. This ship's very important to you, isn't it? 
PICARD: Oh, yes. Oh, yes, it is. 
KAMALA: Are all captains' lives so solitary? Or just yours? 
PICARD: Don't. 
KAMALA: What? 
PICARD: Don't do this, this, this you do with men. 
KAMALA: I'm afraid my premature emergence from stasis has left me a
little vulnerable to the desires I sense from men.
Nevertheless, this is who I am, Captain. You might as well ask a Vulcan
to forgo logic, or a Klingon to be nonviolent. I
cannot change, and I don't want to until the time has come for me to
bond with my permanent mate. Why does it bother you? 
PICARD: Frankly, it's difficult for me, for many of us, to easily
accept that a sentient being can live only to be what someone else
wants them to be. 
KAMALA: But that's what gives a metamorph pleasure. 
PICARD: But what about your wishes, your needs? 
KAMALA: They are fulfilled by what I give to others. 
PICARD: And what about when there are no others, when you are alone? 
KAMALA: I'm incomplete. What curious questions, Captain. 
PICARD: Under the circumstances, I thought that it would help if I
learned more about you. 
KAMALA: But you know me better than you realise. I am independent,
forceful, brilliant, and adventurous. Exactly as you would have me be,
Captain. 
PICARD: I will speak to the Ambassador about easing your restrictions. 
KAMALA: Thank you, Captain.

Captain's log, stardate 45766.1. We have reached
the designated coordinates for the conference and await the arrival of
Chancellor Alrik.

[Holodeck - Temple]

(Briam is playing a form of xylophone, or trying
to) 
BRIAM: I forbid it. 
PICARD: Forbid it? 
BRIAM: It's too dangerous, Captain. She must remain in her quarters. 
PICARD: You cannot confine her against her will. Not on board this
ship, Ambassador. She is requesting some freedom of movement and I
intend to give it to her. 
BRIAM: She is still in the Finiis'ral, the height of her sexual allure,
Captain. Every man on the ship will be fighting over her. 
PICARD: Not every man.

