RIKER CRUSHER MINER 2 MINER 3 WORF MINER 1 PICARD LENOR BRIAM RIKER [OC] QOL DATA KAMALA MEDIC [OC]
growls room servants suggest orchestra drive guests corridor kriosian

[Kamala's quarters]

KAMALA: A chaperone? 
DATA: I would be pleased to escort you around the ship. 
KAMALA: But I was hoping we might spend more time together, Captain. 
PICARD: I shall busy making arrangements for the conference. 
KAMALA: I'm very knowledgeable about Valt. I could be helpful. 
PICARD: I think that you should enjoy the hospitality of the ship.
Mister Data here will see to your every comfort. If you will excuse me.

[Corridor]

DATA: Your empathic powers do not perceive anything
because as an android, I have no emotions. 
KAMALA: I can understand why Captain Picard chose you to be my
chaperone. 
[Ten Forward]

(as predicted, all male eyes turn to Kamala, and
she loves it) 
RIKER: (to Worf) I'll check in with you later. 
(Riker leaves) 
MINER 1: Excuse me, but I'm absolutely certain that we met once at
Paloris Colony. 
KAMALA: I've never been to Paloris Colony. 
MINER 1: Neither have I. Why don't we find out what else we have in
common. 
DATA: Extremely rude behaviour. 
KAMALA: He's just being playful. 
DATA: Perhaps you would care for something to drink? 
KAMALA: What are you all having, boys? 
MINER 2: Aldorian Ale's our drink. 
KAMALA: Then, it's mine too. 
DATA: Bartender! 
DATA: There do not seem to be enough waiters on duty. 
MINER 3: I believe they're having a minor problem with the replicator. 
MINER 2: They could use a hand, Commander. 
DATA: Excuse me. I believe I will stay. 
KAMALA: Mister Data's protecting me tonight. 
MINER 2: Protecting you? From what? 
KAMALA: From you, I guess. I told the Captain not to worry, I just want
to have a good time like anybody else. 
MINER 1: Come on down to deck seven, we'll show you a good time 
MINER 2: Get rid of the android. We'll have some fun. 
WORF: Is there a problem here? 
MINER 1: No, sir. 
MINER 2: No problem.
MINER 3: Tell him, lady. 
DATA: Thank you, Lieutenant. The crowd seemed a bit too ebullient for
comfort. Perhaps you would enjoy a quiet visit to the arboretum. 
(Data leads Kamala away, then she turns and growls. Data hauls her out
of the room before Worf growls back and then catches himself)

[Ready room]

KAMALA: Perhaps the ambassador is right. Perhaps I
should remain in my quarters. 
PICARD: I have confidence in the self-control of my crew, Kamala, but
there are guests and civilians on board. 
KAMALA: I understand. I will volunteer to stay in my quarters under one
condition. That you will visit me. There it is again. 
PICARD: What? 
KAMALA: The wall you put between us. 
PICARD: Kamala, you are one day away from an arranged mating. Why would
you want me to visit you in your quarters? 
KAMALA: I said a visit. I didn't ask you to make love to me. 
(she picks up one of his artefacts and sits in his chair) 
KAMALA: Ventanan thimble. Early Lapeongical period, isn't it? 
PICARD: Yes, it is. 
KAMALA: Have you seen the Ventanan woven art recovered from the fourth
colony dig? 
PICARD: Woven art? Recovered intact? 
KAMALA: They say the colours are remarkably vibrant for their age. 
PICARD: I've read about them for years, but they were so delicate no
one expected to find any preserved. How do you know about them? 
KAMALA: I stay informed on a wide variety of subjects. After all, one
never knows when the conversation might turn to Ventanan archeology or
to the dark woman of raven brows and mournful eyes in Shakespeare's
sonnets. Or to the gardens of Les Eyries near the village where you
grew up. 
PICARD: Your empathic powers told you all this about me? 
KAMALA: Not quite that much. Mister Data helped a little. 
PICARD: I see. 
KAMALA: My empathic powers can only sense a man of deep passion, and
conviction. So controlled. So disciplined. I am simply curious to know
what lies beneath. 
PICARD: Nothing. Nothing lies beneath. I'm really quite dull. I fall
asleep each night with an old book in my hands. 
KAMALA: When a metamorph finds you interesting, do not take it lightly.

PICARD: Oh, I'm not taking it lightly. I'm just trying to be as dull as
possible. 
KAMALA: Will you visit me? 
PICARD: It would be inappropriate. 
KAMALA: Is that a yes or a no? 
PICARD: I'm sorry. 
KAMALA: Even the walls of Jericho fell, Captain. 
PICARD: Why are you doing this, Kamala? 
KAMALA: There can be only one reason. Because some part of you wants me
to.

[Ferengi quarters]

(Briam walks in, with coins in his hand) 
LENOR: Ambassador. 
BRIAM: What is the meaning of this? 
LENOR: Ah, I see you got our message. 
BRIAM: Is this some sort of bribe? I am not amused. 
QOL: No, Ambassador. Your attitude is quite understandable. 
LENOR: This is just a sample. 
QOL: The bribe is ten thousand more. 
LENOR: Ludugial gold. The purest in the galaxy. 
QOL: We know the lifestyle of a Kriosian Ambassador is far from
comfortable. 
LENOR: You deserve to live a life of luxury. 
BRIAM: How dare you suggest 
(He throws the coins on the floor) 
QOL: Our money! What? You drive a hard bargain. 
LENOR: Twenty thousand, but not an ingot more. 
QOL: We must have the metamorph. 
LENOR: She is the answer to a Ferengi prayer. 
QOL: We have a ship waiting to rendezvous with us in three hours. We
can all transport off together. 
BRIAM: Thank you for sharing that information. I shall pass on along to
Captain Picard. 
LENOR: You can't do that. 
BRIAM: Let go of me. 
(The pair haul Briam away from the door and he is thrown into a glass
table, which of course shatters)

Captain's log, supplemental. The Ferengi have been
dispatched via shuttle to Starbase one one seven. What charges will
be brought against them depends on whether or not Ambassador Briam
recovers.

[Sickbay]

CRUSHER: We've been able to stabilise his
condition. If we're lucky he'll regain consciousness in a few days. Set
up level one cranio-sacral display. 
MEDIC [OC]: Yes, Doctor. 
PICARD: I'll advise the Valtese delegation that the conference will
have to be postponed. 
KAMALA: That won't be possible. My ability to imprint on a mate will
only last a matter of hours after the completion of the Finiis'ral. If
I hadn't been removed from stasis prematurely, a delay might have
been possible. But now, I will have to bond with Alrik within two days.

PICARD: But there are points in the negotiations that Briam still has
to address. 
KAMALA: You are familiar with the issues. 
PICARD: Familiar, yes, but I can't represent your peoples' interests. 
KAMALA: You can represent the interests of peace. My people will agree,
I'm certain of it. 
PICARD: But there are customs and rituals of which I have no experience
at all. 
KAMALA: I told you, I'm extremely knowledgeable about Valt. I will help
you prepare.

[Holodeck - Temple]

(Kamala is showing Picard how to play the
xylophone)
KAMALA: Torze qua. 
(he plays the chords and notes) 
KAMALA: That's right. 
PICARD: I'm reminded of piano lessons when I was a child. Preparing for
some dreaded recital. 
KAMALA: You still play? 
PICARD: No. I regret that I gave it up. It used to please my mother.
But I didn't like performing in front of an audience. 
KAMALA: Shy? 
PICARD: No. Just not very good. 
KAMALA: Thank you. For letting down your guard, if only for a moment. 
PICARD: You will have to help me in the pronunciation of this scroll. 
KAMALA: What is it about me you fear? 
PICARD: Kamala. 
KAMALA: Do you find me unattractive? 
PICARD: I find you unavailable. 
KAMALA: I'm being terribly selfish. I apologise. We have something in
common, Captain. When I was a child, I took music lessons, too. 
PICARD: Really? What instrument? 
KAMALA: All of them. 
PICARD: The entire orchestra? 
KAMALA: Plus a few Valtese horns that sound like braying Targhee
Moonbeasts. They are said to soothe the nerves of Valtese men. My
mother never even heard me play. I was taken from her when I was four
and sequestered in a royal village where I was prepared to fulfill my
destiny. 
PICARD: It sounds as if it were a very lonely time for you. 
KAMALA: On the contrary, I had servants and tutors at my side
constantly. You once asked me what I'm like when I'm alone. I've never
been. There was always somebody there to educate me in literature,
history, art, sex. But I have been alone on this journey, and I've
found myself thinking about all the curious questions you asked. You
wanted to know who I am. And as I continue to ask myself, the only
answer that comes to me is, I am for you, Alrik of Valt. Because that's
the truth. In a day, I will bond with a man I've never met. and I will
turn myself into what he wants me to be, for the rest of my life. 
PICARD: I also once asked you if you were doing this of your own
accord. 
KAMALA: I'm honoured to be chosen to serve my people as an emissary of
peace. But I find it ironic on the eve of this ceremony, which I have
spent my entire life preparing for, that I should meet a man like you. 
RIKER [OC]: Riker to Picard. 
PICARD: Go ahead, Number One. 
RIKER [OC]: The Valtese ship has arrived. Chancellor Alrik is ready to
beam aboard.

