RIKER LAFORGE WORF PICARD LENOR BRIAM QOL KAMALA

[Holodeck - Temple]

BRIAM: There are some details to be added, of
course. 
PICARD: Commander La Forge will be entirely at your disposal,
Ambassador. 
[Corridor]

LAFORGE: Just let me know what you need. 
BRIAM: Yes, of course. I must consult several of the historical volumes
I brought with me, so perhaps we can reconvene later. 
LENOR: Excuse me! Excuse me! Is it true? Is a Kriosian ambassador
aboard this vessel? 
BRIAM: Yes. Can I help you? 
PICARD: The Ambassador's very busy. 
LENOR: Ah, do you schedule his appointments? 
PICARD: I'm the Captain of the ship. What is it you want? 
LENOR: Allow me to present myself. Par Lenor of the Ferengi Trade
Mission. We are pleased to hear, Ambassador, that you have at last
negotiated peace with the Valtese, Ambassador. Peace is good for trade,
unless you happen to be an arms merchant. 
PICARD: Excuse us. 
LENOR: Arms merchant! 
[Cargo bay]

(Qol is rolling barrels near the egg, then he
climbs on the rickety pile to get a closer look) 
[Corridor]

LENOR: in return for the exclusive rights to
transport all Kriosian products to the Valt system. 
PICARD: May I suggest that you arrange to meet at another time, after
the ceremony? 
BRIAM: Perhaps that would be best. 
LENOR: But, but 
(Briam and Picard enter a turbolift as Geordi hustles Lenor away) 
LAFORGE: Listen, have you had a chance to see the dolphins yet? 
[Turbolift]

PICARD: Deck seven. Picard to Worf. 
WORF [OC]: Worf here, Captain. 
PICARD: Lieutenant, one of the Ferengi just waylaid Ambassador Briam. I
need you to keep them on a tight leash.

[Bridge]

PICARD [OC]: I don't want them disrupting this
conference. 
WORF: Aye, sir. Security to cargo bay one. 
RIKER: Lieutenant? 
WORF: One of the Ferengi. 
RIKER: Riker to Captain Picard. 
[Cargo bay]

(Qol is on his perch, scanning the glowing egg when
Worf and his team enter) 
WORF: What are you doing? 
(Qol looses his balance and falls, knocking a small barrel into the
'legs' of the egg. It falls in extreme slow motion and the golden glow
dissipates) 
QOL: This is a misunderstanding. I was looking for a barbershop.
Apparently I made an incorrect turn and 
(Picard, Briam and Riker enter) 
PICARD: Mister Worf? 
RIKER: Get him out of here. Confine them both to their quarters. Put a
guard on their door. 
(Worf, Qol and security leave) 
PICARD: What is happening? 
BRIAM: Emergence. 
(the egg finally vanishes and a beautiful woman remains. She stands up
gracefully, smiles and walks straight to Picard) 
KAMALA: I am for you, Alrik of Valt. 
BRIAM: No, Kamala. This is not Alrik. This is Captain Jean-Luc Picard
of the Federation Starship Enterprise. 
KAMALA: That explains why you don't look at all like your holographs. I
apologise, Captain. As an empath, I could sense your authority. I
assumed you were Chancellor Alrik. 
PICARD: I'm afraid I require an explanation, Ambassador. 
KAMALA: As do I, Ambassador. Why have I been brought out of stasis
prematurely? 
BRIAM: It was an accident. This is quite complicated. Perhaps you and I

KAMALA: It is not complicated at all, Briam, and the Captain has no
tolerance for prevarication. I'm a gift, to Alrik of Valt. 
RIKER: You mean you're using this ship to transport a sentient being as
property? 
BRIAM: Not as property, as a gift, and I was concerned that you might
not entirely understand. 
PICARD: Your concern was justified, Ambassador. 
KAMALA: You're angry. Why? 
PICARD: There is a provision in the Federation Constitution that
protects an individual's fundamental rights. Now once you were brought
aboard this ship 
KAMALA: You're coming to my rescue. What a kind and generous purpose.
But Captain, I do not need to be rescued. 
BRIAM: Kamala is the key to peace between our two worlds. 
RIKER: Why? 
KAMALA: In our history there's a woman known as Garuth, who was loved
by the brothers Krios and Valt with such passion that an empire fell. 
BRIAM: And the wars began when Krios kidnapped Garuth and took her to
our planet. 
KAMALA: Like her, I'm an empathic metamorph. The first female metamorph
born in my world for over a hundred years. 
PICARD: A metamorph? 
KAMALA: A mutant. A biological curiosity, if you will. With the ability
to sense what a potential mate wants, what he needs, what gives him the
greatest pleasure and then to become that for him. 
RIKER: You mean you change according to whatever man you're with? 
KAMALA: Until I reach the stage of bonding, when I must imprint upon
myself the requirements of one man, to serve as his perfect partner in
life. 
BRIAM: You see, male metamorphs are somewhat common, but females are
born only once in seven generations. So obviously they are greatly
sought after as mates. 
RIKER: Which explains the Ferengi's interest. 
BRIAM: This mating to Alrik was arranged sine her birth by the leaders
of both worlds, in the hopes of restoring peace. 
PICARD: You do this of your own accord? 
KAMALA: It is my sole purpose in life. 
PICARD: Commander Riker, escort her to quarters. There's no need for
you to travel in the cargo bay. 
BRIAM: Kamala, remain in your room. I will speak to you shortly.

