LAFORGE WORF PICARD LENOR BRIAM COMPUTER QOL

[Corridor]

WORF: Unless you can arrange your own transport,
you will have to remain on the Enterprise until we complete our
mission. 
QOL: That will not be a problem. 
LENOR: We are in no hurry. 
QOL: We look forward to enjoying the comforts of your fine ship. 

[Ferengi quarters]

QOL: Quite acceptable. Not what we're used to, you
understand, but it will do. 
LENOR: Perhaps your captain would care to invite us to join him for
dinner this evening? 
WORF: The captain dines alone. 
(Worf leaves) 
QOL: A pity. That was too easy.

[Corridor]

LAFORGE: We've been working from your drawings,
Ambassador. I hope we're in the ballpark. 
BRIAM: Ball park? 
PICARD: That's an old human expression. Mister LaForge hopes that we've
got close to achieving what you wanted. 
LAFORGE: Computer, run holodeck programme Krios One. 
COMPUTER: Enter when ready. 
[Holodeck - Temple]

(stonework, a raised altar platform, a central
chandelier) 
BRIAM: Astonishing. It is the ancient Temple of Akadar. It is this
temple that bonds Krios and Valt, gentlemen. Two brothers ruled a vast
empire from this site until they were torn apart by their love for an
extraordinary woman. This is where the wars began. And this is where
they shall end.

[Cargo bay]

(Qol sneaks in to view the giant golden glowing egg
supported by three golden beams of light.)

[Holodeck - Temple]

BRIAM: There are some details to be added, of
course. 
PICARD: Commander La Forge will be entirely at your disposal,
Ambassador. 
[Corridor]

LAFORGE: Just let me know what you need. 
BRIAM: Yes, of course. I must consult several of the historical volumes
I brought with me, so perhaps we can reconvene later. 
LENOR: Excuse me! Excuse me! Is it true? Is a Kriosian ambassador
aboard this vessel? 
BRIAM: Yes. Can I help you? 
PICARD: The Ambassador's very busy. 
LENOR: Ah, do you schedule his appointments? 
PICARD: I'm the Captain of the ship. What is it you want? 
LENOR: Allow me to present myself. Par Lenor of the Ferengi Trade
Mission. We are pleased to hear, Ambassador, that you have at last
negotiated peace with the Valtese, Ambassador. Peace is good for trade,
unless you happen to be an arms merchant. 
PICARD: Excuse us. 
LENOR: Arms merchant! 
