RIKER MINER 2 MINER 3 WORF MINER 1 PICARD BRIAM CRUSHER DATA KAMALA
growls 45766 forceful holodeck arrangements let making ral room

[Picard's quarters]

(at breakfast, over croissant and fruit juice) 
CRUSHER: How can you simply deliver her like a courier into a life of
virtual prostitution. 
PICARD: Beverly! Arranged marriages have been the basis of political
alliances in many cultures, including our own. 
CRUSHER: I'm surprised at you. 
PICARD: She knows exactly what she's doing. 
CRUSHER: She has been conditioned since the day she was born to believe
it's perfectly acceptable to exist only to please men. 
PICARD: She was born to do this. 
CRUSHER: And bred by those people to seal a treaty with a seductive
coup de grace. 
PICARD: All right, fine, good, let's throw the Prime Directive to the
winds. Let's detain her against her will. Let's destroy any chance of
peace between these worlds. Let's interfere in their society, their
customs. 
CRUSHER: That slave trader who calls himself an ambassador, he has
confined her to her quarters. She is a virtual prisoner in there. 
PICARD: I didn't know that. 
CRUSHER: Well, it is your ship. Maybe there are a few things you should
find out about. 
PICARD: I'll talk to her about it. 
CRUSHER: Good. Lovely breakfast. 
PICARD: Indeed.

[Kamala's quarters]

KAMALA: Come in. 
(the door opens and Picard stands there) 
KAMALA: Captain Picard, what a delightful surprise. Come in. 
PICARD: Thank you. Are you comfortable? 
KAMALA: Reasonably, under the circumstances. 
PICARD: It has been brought to my attention that you have been told to
remain in here. 
KAMALA: That's true, I'm afraid. 
PICARD: Against your wishes. 
KAMALA: At the request of the Ambassador, who believes I might be
disruptive to your crew. 
PICARD: The performance of my crew is none of the Ambassador's
business. 
KAMALA: You care about my well being. Thank you, Captain. 
PICARD: I care about, I care about what happens on board my ship. 
KAMALA: Yes, I know. This ship's very important to you, isn't it? 
PICARD: Oh, yes. Oh, yes, it is. 
KAMALA: Are all captains' lives so solitary? Or just yours? 
PICARD: Don't. 
KAMALA: What? 
PICARD: Don't do this, this, this you do with men. 
KAMALA: I'm afraid my premature emergence from stasis has left me a
little vulnerable to the desires I sense from men.
Nevertheless, this is who I am, Captain. You might as well ask a Vulcan
to forgo logic, or a Klingon to be nonviolent. I
cannot change, and I don't want to until the time has come for me to
bond with my permanent mate. Why does it bother you? 
PICARD: Frankly, it's difficult for me, for many of us, to easily
accept that a sentient being can live only to be what someone else
wants them to be. 
KAMALA: But that's what gives a metamorph pleasure. 
PICARD: But what about your wishes, your needs? 
KAMALA: They are fulfilled by what I give to others. 
PICARD: And what about when there are no others, when you are alone? 
KAMALA: I'm incomplete. What curious questions, Captain. 
PICARD: Under the circumstances, I thought that it would help if I
learned more about you. 
KAMALA: But you know me better than you realise. I am independent,
forceful, brilliant, and adventurous. Exactly as you would have me be,
Captain. 
PICARD: I will speak to the Ambassador about easing your restrictions. 
KAMALA: Thank you, Captain.

Captain's log, stardate 45766.1. We have reached
the designated coordinates for the conference and await the arrival of
Chancellor Alrik.

[Holodeck - Temple]

(Briam is playing a form of xylophone, or trying
to) 
BRIAM: I forbid it. 
PICARD: Forbid it? 
BRIAM: It's too dangerous, Captain. She must remain in her quarters. 
PICARD: You cannot confine her against her will. Not on board this
ship, Ambassador. She is requesting some freedom of movement and I
intend to give it to her. 
BRIAM: She is still in the Finiis'ral, the height of her sexual allure,
Captain. Every man on the ship will be fighting over her. 
PICARD: Not every man.

[Kamala's quarters]

KAMALA: A chaperone? 
DATA: I would be pleased to escort you around the ship. 
KAMALA: But I was hoping we might spend more time together, Captain. 
PICARD: I shall busy making arrangements for the conference. 
KAMALA: I'm very knowledgeable about Valt. I could be helpful. 
PICARD: I think that you should enjoy the hospitality of the ship.
Mister Data here will see to your every comfort. If you will excuse me.

[Corridor]

DATA: Your empathic powers do not perceive anything
because as an android, I have no emotions. 
KAMALA: I can understand why Captain Picard chose you to be my
chaperone. 
[Ten Forward]

(as predicted, all male eyes turn to Kamala, and
she loves it) 
RIKER: (to Worf) I'll check in with you later. 
(Riker leaves) 
MINER 1: Excuse me, but I'm absolutely certain that we met once at
Paloris Colony. 
KAMALA: I've never been to Paloris Colony. 
MINER 1: Neither have I. Why don't we find out what else we have in
common. 
DATA: Extremely rude behaviour. 
KAMALA: He's just being playful. 
DATA: Perhaps you would care for something to drink? 
KAMALA: What are you all having, boys? 
MINER 2: Aldorian Ale's our drink. 
KAMALA: Then, it's mine too. 
DATA: Bartender! 
DATA: There do not seem to be enough waiters on duty. 
MINER 3: I believe they're having a minor problem with the replicator. 
MINER 2: They could use a hand, Commander. 
DATA: Excuse me. I believe I will stay. 
KAMALA: Mister Data's protecting me tonight. 
MINER 2: Protecting you? From what? 
KAMALA: From you, I guess. I told the Captain not to worry, I just want
to have a good time like anybody else. 
MINER 1: Come on down to deck seven, we'll show you a good time 
MINER 2: Get rid of the android. We'll have some fun. 
WORF: Is there a problem here? 
MINER 1: No, sir. 
MINER 2: No problem.
MINER 3: Tell him, lady. 
DATA: Thank you, Lieutenant. The crowd seemed a bit too ebullient for
comfort. Perhaps you would enjoy a quiet visit to the arboretum. 
(Data leads Kamala away, then she turns and growls. Data hauls her out
of the room before Worf growls back and then catches himself)

[Ready room]

KAMALA: Perhaps the ambassador is right. Perhaps I
should remain in my quarters. 
PICARD: I have confidence in the self-control of my crew, Kamala, but
there are guests and civilians on board. 
KAMALA: I understand. I will volunteer to stay in my quarters under one
condition. That you will visit me. There it is again. 
PICARD: What? 
KAMALA: The wall you put between us. 
PICARD: Kamala, you are one day away from an arranged mating. Why would
you want me to visit you in your quarters? 
KAMALA: I said a visit. I didn't ask you to make love to me. 
(she picks up one of his artefacts and sits in his chair) 
KAMALA: Ventanan thimble. Early Lapeongical period, isn't it? 
PICARD: Yes, it is. 
KAMALA: Have you seen the Ventanan woven art recovered from the fourth
colony dig? 
PICARD: Woven art? Recovered intact? 
KAMALA: They say the colours are remarkably vibrant for their age. 
PICARD: I've read about them for years, but they were so delicate no
one expected to find any preserved. How do you know about them? 
KAMALA: I stay informed on a wide variety of subjects. After all, one
never knows when the conversation might turn to Ventanan archeology or
to the dark woman of raven brows and mournful eyes in Shakespeare's
sonnets. Or to the gardens of Les Eyries near the village where you
grew up. 
PICARD: Your empathic powers told you all this about me? 
KAMALA: Not quite that much. Mister Data helped a little. 
PICARD: I see. 
KAMALA: My empathic powers can only sense a man of deep passion, and
conviction. So controlled. So disciplined. I am simply curious to know
what lies beneath. 
PICARD: Nothing. Nothing lies beneath. I'm really quite dull. I fall
asleep each night with an old book in my hands. 
KAMALA: When a metamorph finds you interesting, do not take it lightly.

PICARD: Oh, I'm not taking it lightly. I'm just trying to be as dull as
possible. 
KAMALA: Will you visit me? 
PICARD: It would be inappropriate. 
KAMALA: Is that a yes or a no? 
PICARD: I'm sorry. 
KAMALA: Even the walls of Jericho fell, Captain. 
PICARD: Why are you doing this, Kamala? 
KAMALA: There can be only one reason. Because some part of you wants me
to.

