RIKER PICARD MEDIC ALRIK CRUSHER DATA KAMALA

[Sickbay]

CRUSHER: We've been able to stabilise his
condition. If we're lucky he'll regain consciousness in a few days. Set
up level one cranio-sacral display. 
MEDIC [OC]: Yes, Doctor. 
PICARD: I'll advise the Valtese delegation that the conference will
have to be postponed. 
KAMALA: That won't be possible. My ability to imprint on a mate will
only last a matter of hours after the completion of the Finiis'ral. If
I hadn't been removed from stasis prematurely, a delay might have
been possible. But now, I will have to bond with Alrik within two days.

PICARD: But there are points in the negotiations that Briam still has
to address. 
KAMALA: You are familiar with the issues. 
PICARD: Familiar, yes, but I can't represent your peoples' interests. 
KAMALA: You can represent the interests of peace. My people will agree,
I'm certain of it. 
PICARD: But there are customs and rituals of which I have no experience
at all. 
KAMALA: I told you, I'm extremely knowledgeable about Valt. I will help
you prepare.

[Holodeck - Temple]

(Kamala is showing Picard how to play the
xylophone)
KAMALA: Torze qua. 
(he plays the chords and notes) 
KAMALA: That's right. 
PICARD: I'm reminded of piano lessons when I was a child. Preparing for
some dreaded recital. 
KAMALA: You still play? 
PICARD: No. I regret that I gave it up. It used to please my mother.
But I didn't like performing in front of an audience. 
KAMALA: Shy? 
PICARD: No. Just not very good. 
KAMALA: Thank you. For letting down your guard, if only for a moment. 
PICARD: You will have to help me in the pronunciation of this scroll. 
KAMALA: What is it about me you fear? 
PICARD: Kamala. 
KAMALA: Do you find me unattractive? 
PICARD: I find you unavailable. 
KAMALA: I'm being terribly selfish. I apologise. We have something in
common, Captain. When I was a child, I took music lessons, too. 
PICARD: Really? What instrument? 
KAMALA: All of them. 
PICARD: The entire orchestra? 
KAMALA: Plus a few Valtese horns that sound like braying Targhee
Moonbeasts. They are said to soothe the nerves of Valtese men. My
mother never even heard me play. I was taken from her when I was four
and sequestered in a royal village where I was prepared to fulfill my
destiny. 
PICARD: It sounds as if it were a very lonely time for you. 
KAMALA: On the contrary, I had servants and tutors at my side
constantly. You once asked me what I'm like when I'm alone. I've never
been. There was always somebody there to educate me in literature,
history, art, sex. But I have been alone on this journey, and I've
found myself thinking about all the curious questions you asked. You
wanted to know who I am. And as I continue to ask myself, the only
answer that comes to me is, I am for you, Alrik of Valt. Because that's
the truth. In a day, I will bond with a man I've never met. and I will
turn myself into what he wants me to be, for the rest of my life. 
PICARD: I also once asked you if you were doing this of your own
accord. 
KAMALA: I'm honoured to be chosen to serve my people as an emissary of
peace. But I find it ironic on the eve of this ceremony, which I have
spent my entire life preparing for, that I should meet a man like you. 
RIKER [OC]: Riker to Picard. 
PICARD: Go ahead, Number One. 
RIKER [OC]: The Valtese ship has arrived. Chancellor Alrik is ready to
beam aboard.

[Observation lounge]

(a wiry man with a shock of red hair is there. He
comes across as a man not really interested in women) 
ALRIK: Captain Picard. 
PICARD: Chancellor Alrik. Welcome aboard the Enterprise. 
ALRIK: Your First Officer has described the details of the incident
with the Ferengis. How is the Ambassador? 
PICARD: He has not regained consciousness. 
ALRIK: A tragedy. Your willingness to assist is appreciated by both our
peoples. 
PICARD: I', doing my best, although I'm finding some of the rituals
quite demanding. 
ALRIK: Rituals. I am more concerned about the remaining provisions of
the treaty. The proposed trade agreements are not
acceptable. We still must review the uncommitted territories as well as
discuss the schedule for exchange of technology. 
PICARD: The Kriosians have authorised me to make several compromises
favourable to your position. 
ALRIK: Good. Tomorrow, then. 
PICARD: Briam has supervised a reproduction of the ancient Temple of
Akadar on our holodeck. 
ALRIK: Such a sentimental people, these Kriosians. It's hard to believe
we have a common ancestry. 
PICARD: Please. 
ALRIK: I suppose they've sent the metamorph. 
PICARD: Kamala? Yes. She's looking forward to meeting you. 
ALRIK: I'm sure she'll be satisfactory. Between you and me, Captain, I
am far more interested in the trade agreements.

[Kamala's quarters]

KAMALA: So tell me quickly. What is he like? 
PICARD: First impressions? He's a thoughtful man. Informed. 
KAMALA: Did he ask about me? 
PICARD: Yes. 
KAMALA: What did you tell him? 
PICARD: That you were looking forward to meeting him. 
KAMALA: When am I to be presented? 
PICARD: It'll be the first order of business tomorrow. At ten. 
KAMALA: Would you like some tea? 
PICARD: Thank you, but I should prepare for the ceremony. 
KAMALA: Let me help you with pronunciations. 
PICARD: I think I can muddle my way through. 
KAMALA: Please don't leave. Talk to me. I love the sound of your voice.
I'll turn out the lights and just listen. I don't want to be alone. 
PICARD: The lights stay on. 
KAMALA: Earl Grey Tea. Hot. 
PICARD: Did you learn that from Commander Data as well? I shall have to
have a talk with him. 
(they sit) 
PICARD: Now that I know that you're listening to my voice, I find that
I can't think of anything to say. 
KAMALA: A starship captain must encounter all sorts of lifeforms. Am I
one of the most unique you've ever met? Please say yes. 
PICARD: Yes. 
KAMALA: What a nice thing to say. 
(she strokes his smooth bald pate) 
PICARD: Kamala, have I not done everything possible to discourage this?

KAMALA: Maybe that's the perfect way to attract a metamorph. 
PICARD: I don't want to use you as other men do. 
KAMALA: But you're not other men. You could never use me. That's the
very reason why I'm with you tonight. 
PICARD: I should go. And you have an appointment tomorrow morning
early. 
KAMALA: Light years away.

[Picard's quarters]

(Beverly pours the hot beverage) 
CRUSHER: Quiet this morning. 
PICARD: I'm sorry. 
CRUSHER: Penny? 
PICARD: What? 
CRUSHER: For your thoughts. Penny for your thoughts. 
PICARD: Do you have one? 
CRUSHER: I'm sure the replicator will have one on file. 
PICARD: Beverly, may I take off the uniform for a moment? 
CRUSHER: Captain. 
PICARD: I need to talk to a friend. 
CRUSHER: Of course. 
PICARD: Actually, it's all your fault. 
CRUSHER: Mine? 
PICARD: You insisted I look into her situation. 
CRUSHER: The metamorph? 
PICARD: The metamorph. Kamala. I've spent quite a lot of time with her
the past few days, and you're right about several things, but, Beverly,
her entire existence has been orchestrated for this moment and she
intends to go through with it to help her people end the war. 
CRUSHER: And you're saying there's nothing you can do about it? 
PICARD: It isn't that simple. I barely know who she is, and who she is
changes the moment the next man
comes into the room. And I find myself hoping that the next
man won't come in. But, of
course, he does, and in a few hours, the ceremony will begin and she
will mate with a man who cares more about trade agreements than he
cares about her. And I can't help thinking how she will be with him.
How she will change to accommodate him. 
CRUSHER: I wish I knew how I could help. 
PICARD: Perhaps I just needed a shoulder. 
CRUSHER: Oh, it's there for you, Jean-Luc. It always has been.

[Kamala's quarters]

KAMALA: Come in. 
(Picard is there in his dress uniform, she's in her wedding dress) 
KAMALA: Is it time? 
PICARD: Soon. 
KAMALA: Do you have any questions about the ceremony? 
PICARD: Many. 
KAMALA: I will never truly love him. 
PICARD: You've not even met him. 
KAMALA: It no longer matters. I wish I could convey to you what it's
like to be a metamorph. To feel the inner strength of someone. To
realise that being with him is opening your mind and heart to endless
new possibilities. To hear yourself say, I like myself when I'm with
him. 
PICARD: Kamala. 
KAMALA: For a metamorph there's no greater pleasure and no greater wish
than to bond with that kind of mate at the end of the Finiis'ral, as
I've bonded with you. 
PICARD: With me? 
KAMALA: Who I am today, I will be forever. 
DATA [OC]: Data to Captain Picard. 
PICARD: Not now, Data. 
DATA [OC]: But sir, Chancellor Alrik is waiting to receive you in
holodeck seven. 
PICARD: Acknowledged. You can't go through with the ceremony. 
KAMALA: Would you ask me to stay and ask two armies to keep fighting?
Having bonded with you, I've learned the meaning of duty. He'll never
know. I'm still empathic. I will be able to please him. I only hope he
likes Shakespeare.

[Holodeck - Temple]

(Picard leads Kamala down the steps and hands her
to Alrik) 
KAMALA: I am for you, Alrik of Valt. 
(and the newly-weds kiss gently)

