RIKER ISABELLA LAFORGE WORF PICARD CLARA TROI SUTTER GUINAN DATA

[Corridor]

(Isabella appears) 
CLARA: Where did you go? 
ISABELLA: There was something I had to do.

[Observation lounge]

LAFORGE: I don't have an explanation, Captain. We
seemed to hit something, then we started losing speed. So far as we can
tell, there's nothing out there to hit. 
RIKER: Could some kind of damping field have caused us to lose
velocity? 
DATA: We have simulated several such fields, but were unable to
reproduce the same drag coefficient. 
LAFORGE: And we still don't know why the problem suddenly corrected
itself. 
PICARD: It seems we're looking a unique phenomenon. One that hasn't
been recorded before. 
LAFORGE: The question is, do we stay here and check it out? 
RIKER: Might be dangerous. 
DATA: Since we have only experienced the phenomenon once, it is
impossible to estimate the risks. 
LAFORGE: Captain, I'd like to stay here for a little bit, collect some
samples of the gaseous matter, see what it tells us. 
PICARD: Agreed. Collect your samples, Mister La Forge. We'll proceed
with caution. Dismissed.

[Corridor]

ISABELLA: What's in here? 
CLARA: That's the door to the cargo bay. We can't go in there. 
ISABELLA: Let's go someplace with a lot of people. 
CLARA: Okay. Isabella, why are you so serious lately? 
ISABELLA: What do you mean? 
CLARA: You haven't even smiled once today. 
(Isabella attempts a smile, and feels her face to find out what it's
like) 
CLARA: You're my best friend, Isabella. 
ISABELLA: Why? 
CLARA: I don't know. Because we do things together and we trade
secrets. 
ISABELLA: Does everybody have a best friend? 
CLARA: If they're lucky. Before I had you, I didn't have one. 
ISABELLA: Why not? 
CLARA: Every time I made friends with someone, my daddy's job would
change and we'd move to a new ship. It takes time to make a best
friend. 
ISABELLA: How long? 
CLARA: It depends. With you, not very long. You always listened to me,
even when I was sad. 
ISABELLA: Clara, I'm glad we're best friends. 
CLARA: Race you. 
ISABELLA: Okay. 
CLARA: Ready, set, go! 
(and they run around the corner straight into -) 
WORF: This area is not designated for children. Are you lost? Where are
you supposed to be? 
CLARA: We were only playing. We're sorry. 
WORF: Return to your quarters, and we will forget this incident. 
CLARA: Thank you. Come on. 
(Clara takes Isabella's hand and they go back around the corner. Once
Worf is gone, they return and run on )

[Engineering]

LAFORGE: Okay, I've configured the magnetic coil to
collect samples of gaseous matter from the nebula. Go ahead and
activate the beam emitter. 
SUTTER: I'm setting the fractionater to a continuous cycle. 
LAFORGE: We'll take samples from eight random sections. That ought to
give us a reliable measure. 
SUTTER: Commander, I understand that you had a parent who was in
Starfleet. 
LAFORGE: Two of them, as a matter of fact. My father was an
exozoologist, my mother a Command officer. 
SUTTER: They must have been posted to a lot of different assignments. 
LAFORGE: That's putting it mildly. They were always on the move. Some
of the time together, sometimes separately. I never knew whether or not
I was going to be stationed with my father while he studied
invertebrates in the Modean system or on some outpost near the Neutral
Zone with my mom. 
SUTTER: Was that hard on you? 
LAFORGE: I don't remember it that way. 
SUTTER: It must have been disruptive if you didn't stay in one place
long enough to make friends. 
LAFORGE: Well, I suppose there were aspects of my childhood that were
less than ideal, but to me it was just one long adventure. Children are
a lot stronger than you think. As long as they know you love them, they
can handle just about anything life throws at them, you know. 
SUTTER: Thanks, Commander.

[Ten Forward]

(Data and Guinan are looking at the nebula) 
GUINAN: It's a Samarian coral fish with its fin unfolded. 
DATA: I believe what you are seeing is the effect of the fluid dynamic
processes inherent in the large scale motion of highly rarified gas. 
GUINAN: No, no. First it was a fish, and now it's a Mintonian sailing
ship. 
DATA: Where? 
GUINAN: Right there. Don't you see the two swirls coming together to
form the mast? 
DATA: I do not see it. It is interesting that people try to find
meaningful patterns in things that are essentially
random. I have noticed that the images they perceive sometimes suggest
what they are thinking about at that particular moment. Besides, it is
clearly a bunny rabbit. 
(Clara enters) 
GUINAN: Looks as though someone's lost their way. Excuse me. Hello. Are
you looking for someone? 
CLARA: No. I brought Isabella to see Ten Forward. 
GUINAN: Oh, I see. Well, ordinarily we would only let you in with a
grown-up, but since you've brought Isabella, you can be my guest. Won't
you join me? 
CLARA: Thank you. 
GUINAN: Now, how about two Papalla juices with extra bubbles. 
CLARA: Just one, please. Isabella isn't thirsty. 
GUINAN: One juice. 
CLARA: You're not like the other grown-ups. 
GUINAN: Oh, no? 
CLARA: They don't think Isabella's real. 
GUINAN: Well, most grown-ups have a hard time with things they can't
see. 
CLARA: Why? 
GUINAN: Well, because they get preoccupied by other things. 
CLARA: Like what? 
GUINAN: Like how much fuel it takes to power a ship, or whether we
should go to one star system or another, or whether little girls should
go to bed at seven or be
allowed to stay up till eight. So their heads can get so full that they
forget about the things that are important to you and me, like
imaginary friends. 
CLARA: If the other grown-ups don't understand, how come you do? 
GUINAN: Maybe because when I was your age, I had one. 
CLARA: You did? What was she like? 
GUINAN: It wasn't a she. 
CLARA: What was he like? 
GUINAN: It wasn't a he. 
CLARA: It? 
GUINAN: It was a Tarkassian razor beast. It had dark brown fur and gold
eyes and huge spiny wings, and it would fly so fast nobody could see it
except me. 
CLARA: Sounds scary. 
GUINAN: Oh, it was, especially when he smiled. But the best thing about
him was I could curl up on his furry belly, and he had the softest purr
you ever heard. It put me right to sleep every night. I tell you, that
razorbeast was a good friend. 
CLARA: So is Isabella. 
(Troi enters) 
TROI: Hello, Clara. 
CLARA: Hello. 
GUINAN: Clara and Isabella and I were just having a conversation. 
TROI: Would you and Isabella like to come for a walk with me? 
CLARA: I guess so. Bye. 
GUINAN: Bye, Clara. Bye, Isabella.

[Corridor]

TROI: Clara, you haven't been on this she very
long, so maybe you don't know, but Ten Forward is usually for
grown-ups. 
CLARA: I know that. I didn't want to go, but Isabella wanted to see it.

TROI: If Isabella is making you do things you know are wrong, then you
must tell her it's not acceptable. 
CLARA: I try to but she doesn't listen.

