TROI PICARD CLARA SUTTER GUINAN CRUSHER

[Ten Forward]

GUINAN: Is something wrong with the cake? 
TROI: Excuse me? 
GUINAN: Well, I see you sitting here with a piece of untouched
chocolate cake in front of you. I assume something's wrong with the
cake or something's bothering you. 
TROI: I'm sure the cake is fine. I've just been thinking. 
GUINAN: Let me guess. About the little girl with the imaginary friend? 
TROI: I'm wondering if I'm doing the right thing. 
GUINAN: How so? 
TROI: Well, I know the best thing to do is to gradually wean her away
from her fantasy, and she did make some new friends today and had a
good time. 
GUINAN: But? 
TROI: But I can't help feeling that I'm taking something from her.
Something precious. A part of her childhood she'll never have again. 
GUINAN: Well, I'm not sure about that. I was just telling Clara about
my imaginary friend. 
TROI: You have an imaginary friend? 
GUINAN: A Tarkassian razor beast. It protected me. I knew as long as
that razorbeast was around, nothing could hurt me. You know, over the
years his body kind of faded away but the idea stayed. And I just don't
seem to talk to him as often as I used to. 
TROI: You still talk to it? 
GUINAN: Oh, yeah, when I'm afraid or I get confused or a little scared.
I just don't think you should have to give up an imaginary friend. 
SUTTER [OC]: Ensign Sutter to Counsellor Troi. 
TROI: Go ahead, Ensign. 
[Sutter quarters]

SUTTER: Would you come to my quarters? I'm having a
problem with Clara. 
[Ten Forward]

TROI: I'm on my way.

[Sutter quarters]

SUTTER: She won't even go into her room. She's
terrified that Isabella's going to hurt her. 
TROI: Clara, your father tells me Isabella has been saying some very
bad things to you. What did she say? 
CLARA: She said they were going to come and kill everyone. 
TROI: Who's going to come and kill everyone? 
CLARA: The others, like her. 
TROI: Did she say why? I know you're very frightened. Sometimes what we
imagine can be just as scary as something real. But I promise you,
there is no way Isabella can harm you or anyone on this ship. 
CLARA: But she's not imaginary anymore. She's real now. I can see her. 
TROI: You can see her? 
CLARA: Yes. 
TROI: If I go with you and hold your hand, will you go into your room? 
CLARA: I think so. 
TROI: We'll make sure Isabella isn't anywhere around, okay? Come on.

[Clara's bedroom]

TROI: Do you see anybody? 
(head shake) 
TROI: Let's look under the bed. Is she there? Okay, where else? 
TROI: Is she behind here? 
(Clara looks behind the chair) 
TROI: Maybe Isabella's gone home. 
(they check the bathroom) 
TROI: Let's see. Anything here? Maybe Isabella knows that you've got
new friends now. In fact, I'll bet she won't be coming around as much
anymore. 
CLARA: Maybe. What about in the closet? 
TROI: Okay. Anybody in here? Looks pretty empty to me. 
(and Isabella appears, fires a red bolt that knocks Troi out, and Clara
screams)

[Sickbay]

TROI: She was eleven, maybe twelve, with blonde
hair. Clara. 
CRUSHER: Clara's sleeping. She's going to be fine. Her bioelectrical
processes were severely disrupted. It's as if the energy were pulled
right out of her body. 
SUTTER: Captain, Clara has told me that her imaginary friend has been
making threats. She claimed that others were on the way and that they
had plans to kill everyone on the ship. 
PICARD: Picard to Lieutenant Worf. 
