RIKER ISABELLA LAFORGE WORF PICARD CLARA SUTTER DATA
hit stationed just random setting caution losing new posted

[Corridor]

(Isabella appears) 
CLARA: Why do you keep disappearing like that? 
ISABELLA: The grown-ups don't believe I'm real. When they're around, I
have to be invisible. Wait here. 
(Isabella disappears)

[Engineering]

DATA: The drag coefficient continues to increase.
Our velocity has fallen by twelve percent. Velocity is increasing.
Ship's speed has stabilised at one quarter impulse. 
LAFORGE: That's great, Data. What'd you do? 
DATA: I did nothing. The problem seems to have corrected itself.

[Corridor]

(Isabella appears) 
CLARA: Where did you go? 
ISABELLA: There was something I had to do.

[Observation lounge]

LAFORGE: I don't have an explanation, Captain. We
seemed to hit something, then we started losing speed. So far as we can
tell, there's nothing out there to hit. 
RIKER: Could some kind of damping field have caused us to lose
velocity? 
DATA: We have simulated several such fields, but were unable to
reproduce the same drag coefficient. 
LAFORGE: And we still don't know why the problem suddenly corrected
itself. 
PICARD: It seems we're looking a unique phenomenon. One that hasn't
been recorded before. 
LAFORGE: The question is, do we stay here and check it out? 
RIKER: Might be dangerous. 
DATA: Since we have only experienced the phenomenon once, it is
impossible to estimate the risks. 
LAFORGE: Captain, I'd like to stay here for a little bit, collect some
samples of the gaseous matter, see what it tells us. 
PICARD: Agreed. Collect your samples, Mister La Forge. We'll proceed
with caution. Dismissed.

[Corridor]

ISABELLA: What's in here? 
CLARA: That's the door to the cargo bay. We can't go in there. 
ISABELLA: Let's go someplace with a lot of people. 
CLARA: Okay. Isabella, why are you so serious lately? 
ISABELLA: What do you mean? 
CLARA: You haven't even smiled once today. 
(Isabella attempts a smile, and feels her face to find out what it's
like) 
CLARA: You're my best friend, Isabella. 
ISABELLA: Why? 
CLARA: I don't know. Because we do things together and we trade
secrets. 
ISABELLA: Does everybody have a best friend? 
CLARA: If they're lucky. Before I had you, I didn't have one. 
ISABELLA: Why not? 
CLARA: Every time I made friends with someone, my daddy's job would
change and we'd move to a new ship. It takes time to make a best
friend. 
ISABELLA: How long? 
CLARA: It depends. With you, not very long. You always listened to me,
even when I was sad. 
ISABELLA: Clara, I'm glad we're best friends. 
CLARA: Race you. 
ISABELLA: Okay. 
CLARA: Ready, set, go! 
(and they run around the corner straight into -) 
WORF: This area is not designated for children. Are you lost? Where are
you supposed to be? 
CLARA: We were only playing. We're sorry. 
WORF: Return to your quarters, and we will forget this incident. 
CLARA: Thank you. Come on. 
(Clara takes Isabella's hand and they go back around the corner. Once
Worf is gone, they return and run on )

[Engineering]

LAFORGE: Okay, I've configured the magnetic coil to
collect samples of gaseous matter from the nebula. Go ahead and
activate the beam emitter. 
SUTTER: I'm setting the fractionater to a continuous cycle. 
LAFORGE: We'll take samples from eight random sections. That ought to
give us a reliable measure. 
SUTTER: Commander, I understand that you had a parent who was in
Starfleet. 
LAFORGE: Two of them, as a matter of fact. My father was an
exozoologist, my mother a Command officer. 
SUTTER: They must have been posted to a lot of different assignments. 
LAFORGE: That's putting it mildly. They were always on the move. Some
of the time together, sometimes separately. I never knew whether or not
I was going to be stationed with my father while he studied
invertebrates in the Modean system or on some outpost near the Neutral
Zone with my mom. 
SUTTER: Was that hard on you? 
LAFORGE: I don't remember it that way. 
SUTTER: It must have been disruptive if you didn't stay in one place
long enough to make friends. 
LAFORGE: Well, I suppose there were aspects of my childhood that were
less than ideal, but to me it was just one long adventure. Children are
a lot stronger than you think. As long as they know you love them, they
can handle just about anything life throws at them, you know. 
SUTTER: Thanks, Commander.

