TROI CLARA SUTTER
play love counsellor enterprise buttons starship bedroom cook tall

  [Clara's
bedroom]

(Troi and little Clara are taking tea, while Father
is visible in the next section) 
CLARA: I like to cook all kinds of stuff, like yogurt and raisin salad,
chocolate chip pancakes and purple omelettes. 
TROI: Purple omelettes? 
CLARA: You put grape juice in the eggs. Isabella doesn't like it very
much. She says it tastes funny. 
TROI: I can see her point. Sugar with your tea? 
CLARA: Yes, please. 
TROI: Isabella would you like some too? 
CLARA: Yes, but she takes two cubes. 
TROI: I'll bet Isabella is very pretty. 
CLARA: She's very, very pretty. She has blonde hair and a blue dress
with white buttons. Her ears are pierced and she's tall. 
TROI: Maybe you could draw me a picture. I'd love to see what she looks
like. 
CLARA: You don't think she's real. 
TROI: I think she's real for you, and that is real enough for me. 
SUTTER: Honey, I think it's time for you to go. You don't want to keep
Keiko waiting. 
CLARA: I have to go plant the nasturtiums now. I'm Keiko's helper in
the arboretum today. 
TROI: Is that so? 
SUTTER: You go ahead, sweetie, and be home for dinner. 
TROI: I hope I see you soon. Maybe we can be friends. 
CLARA: Okay. Counsellor Troi? 
TROI: Yes? 
CLARA: Isabella says she likes you. 
TROI: Why, thank you, Isabella. 
(Clara leaves) 
TROI: I can understand your concern, Ensign Sutter, but really you have
nothing to worry about. It's a normal, healthy activity for children to
engage in imaginary play. 
SUTTER: I'm just afraid she's not making any real friends. She spends
all of her time with Isabella. 
TROI: You've been moving from starship to starship since Clara was two
years old. Maybe Isabella provides a constant companion. She knows this
is one friend she won't have to leave behind. 
SUTTER: You're probably right. 
TROI: Give Clara a chance. As she learns to make friends on the
Enterprise, you'll probably find that she'll leave her imaginary world
behind.

Captain's log, stardate 45852.1. The Enterprise has
arrived at FGC four seven, a nebula which has formed around a neutron
star. We are eager to investigate this unique formation.

