TROI ISABELLA LAFORGE CLARA SUTTER GUINAN DATA

[Engineering]

LAFORGE: Okay, I've configured the magnetic coil to
collect samples of gaseous matter from the nebula. Go ahead and
activate the beam emitter. 
SUTTER: I'm setting the fractionater to a continuous cycle. 
LAFORGE: We'll take samples from eight random sections. That ought to
give us a reliable measure. 
SUTTER: Commander, I understand that you had a parent who was in
Starfleet. 
LAFORGE: Two of them, as a matter of fact. My father was an
exozoologist, my mother a Command officer. 
SUTTER: They must have been posted to a lot of different assignments. 
LAFORGE: That's putting it mildly. They were always on the move. Some
of the time together, sometimes separately. I never knew whether or not
I was going to be stationed with my father while he studied
invertebrates in the Modean system or on some outpost near the Neutral
Zone with my mom. 
SUTTER: Was that hard on you? 
LAFORGE: I don't remember it that way. 
SUTTER: It must have been disruptive if you didn't stay in one place
long enough to make friends. 
LAFORGE: Well, I suppose there were aspects of my childhood that were
less than ideal, but to me it was just one long adventure. Children are
a lot stronger than you think. As long as they know you love them, they
can handle just about anything life throws at them, you know. 
SUTTER: Thanks, Commander.

[Ten Forward]

(Data and Guinan are looking at the nebula) 
GUINAN: It's a Samarian coral fish with its fin unfolded. 
DATA: I believe what you are seeing is the effect of the fluid dynamic
processes inherent in the large scale motion of highly rarified gas. 
GUINAN: No, no. First it was a fish, and now it's a Mintonian sailing
ship. 
DATA: Where? 
GUINAN: Right there. Don't you see the two swirls coming together to
form the mast? 
DATA: I do not see it. It is interesting that people try to find
meaningful patterns in things that are essentially
random. I have noticed that the images they perceive sometimes suggest
what they are thinking about at that particular moment. Besides, it is
clearly a bunny rabbit. 
(Clara enters) 
GUINAN: Looks as though someone's lost their way. Excuse me. Hello. Are
you looking for someone? 
CLARA: No. I brought Isabella to see Ten Forward. 
GUINAN: Oh, I see. Well, ordinarily we would only let you in with a
grown-up, but since you've brought Isabella, you can be my guest. Won't
you join me? 
CLARA: Thank you. 
GUINAN: Now, how about two Papalla juices with extra bubbles. 
CLARA: Just one, please. Isabella isn't thirsty. 
GUINAN: One juice. 
CLARA: You're not like the other grown-ups. 
GUINAN: Oh, no? 
CLARA: They don't think Isabella's real. 
GUINAN: Well, most grown-ups have a hard time with things they can't
see. 
CLARA: Why? 
GUINAN: Well, because they get preoccupied by other things. 
CLARA: Like what? 
GUINAN: Like how much fuel it takes to power a ship, or whether we
should go to one star system or another, or whether little girls should
go to bed at seven or be
allowed to stay up till eight. So their heads can get so full that they
forget about the things that are important to you and me, like
imaginary friends. 
CLARA: If the other grown-ups don't understand, how come you do? 
GUINAN: Maybe because when I was your age, I had one. 
CLARA: You did? What was she like? 
GUINAN: It wasn't a she. 
CLARA: What was he like? 
GUINAN: It wasn't a he. 
CLARA: It? 
GUINAN: It was a Tarkassian razor beast. It had dark brown fur and gold
eyes and huge spiny wings, and it would fly so fast nobody could see it
except me. 
CLARA: Sounds scary. 
GUINAN: Oh, it was, especially when he smiled. But the best thing about
him was I could curl up on his furry belly, and he had the softest purr
you ever heard. It put me right to sleep every night. I tell you, that
razorbeast was a good friend. 
CLARA: So is Isabella. 
(Troi enters) 
TROI: Hello, Clara. 
CLARA: Hello. 
GUINAN: Clara and Isabella and I were just having a conversation. 
TROI: Would you and Isabella like to come for a walk with me? 
CLARA: I guess so. Bye. 
GUINAN: Bye, Clara. Bye, Isabella.

[Corridor]

TROI: Clara, you haven't been on this she very
long, so maybe you don't know, but Ten Forward is usually for
grown-ups. 
CLARA: I know that. I didn't want to go, but Isabella wanted to see it.

TROI: If Isabella is making you do things you know are wrong, then you
must tell her it's not acceptable. 
CLARA: I try to but she doesn't listen.

[Turbolift]

TROI: Deck thirty two. Clara, do you want me to
talk to Isabella? 
(Clara shrugs) 
TROI: Isabella, it's not very nice to get Clara to do things that she
isn't supposed to. 
CLARA: She's over there. 
TROI: From now on I want you to ask a grown-up before you go to any
place that is off-limits. 
TROI: What does she say? 
CLARA: She said. 
TROI: Clara, please tell me what Isabella said. 
CLARA: She said, you'd better leave us alone.

[Corridor]

TROI: I'm a little concerned at the turn this is
taking. It seems Clara is beginning to do inappropriate things and
blaming them on Isabella. 
SUTTER: She came into Engineering today. She said it was Isabella's
idea. 
TROI: I don't think it's too serious yet, but we should make more of an
effort to get her involved with real friends her own age. The
children's centre's having a ceramics class this afternoon. Why don't I
take Clara? 
SUTTER: I think she'd like that. 
TROI: I'll see if there's any room left in the class. In the meantime,
I think you should make yourself more available to Clara. Let her know
she doesn't have to rely on Isabella when she needs someone to talk to.

SUTTER: Counsellor, thank you.

[Clara's bedroom]

(Clara is doing a puzzle while Isabella just sits
holding a teddy bear) 
ISABELLA: Are you mad at me? I'm sorry I got you in trouble. 
CLARA: That's okay. 
ISABELLA: Are we still best friends? 
CLARA: Here, you can help me put this together if you want. 
ISABELLA: Clara, why are grown-ups so mean? 
CLARA: They're not mean. They're just more serious than we are. 
ISABELLA: Sometimes I wish they would just go away. 
CLARA: You do? 
ISABELLA: Yes, I don't like them. I'm bored. Let's go back to
Engineering. 
CLARA: We're not allowed to go there. 
ISABELLA: I thought we were best friends. 
CLARA: We are. 
ISABELLA: Then why won't you play with me? 
CLARA: I told you. 
ISABELLA: You always listen to the grown-ups. You don't care about me. 
CLARA: That's not true. 
ISABELLA: I thought we'd have fun together, once you could really see
me. I thought you'd like me. Let's go to Engineering, Clara. Just for a
little while. No one will know. It'll be our secret. And if they find
us, we'll tell them we got lost. 
(doorbell) 
CLARA: Who is it? 
TROI [OC]: Counsellor Troi. 
(Isabella vanishes and Clara lets Troi in) 
TROI: Hello, Clara. 
CLARA: Hi. 
TROI: I came to ask if you'd like to go to a ceramics class. 
CLARA: Can Isabella come too? 
TROI: No. Let's do something with Isabella another day. 
CLARA: Well, okay. 
(Troi and Clara leave, Isabella appears and her eyes turn red)

