PICARD [OC] RIKER ISABELLA LAFORGE WORF WORF [OC] CLARA SUTTER RIKER [OC] PICARD OGAWA DATA
liked oh rules didn effect entity understand threat children

[Sickbay]

PICARD: We've established the presence of what
appears to be an alien entity on board. It seems the entity has
manifested
itself in the form of a twelve year old human girl who has been seen
with Clara Sutter. She has blonde hair, blue eyes 
WORF [OC]: And a blue dress. 
[Bridge]

WORF: Yes sir, I have seen her. 
PICARD [OC]: When? 
WORF: Two days ago, near Engineering. She was with Miss Sutter. 
PICARD [OC]: Security Alert

[Sickbay]

PICARD: Mister Worf. Keep a good lookout. 
WORF [OC]: Aye, sir. 
(Alyssa and Clara enter) 
OGAWA: She insisted on talking to you. 
CLARA: It's about Isabella. 
SUTTER: What about her, Clara? 
CLARA: I think her feelings were hurt. She said she liked me, she liked
being with me. She was my friend. She only got mean when I stopped
paying attention to her. 
SUTTER: Did she say when the others were coming? (shakes head) All
right, thanks, sweetie. You go back to bed now. We'll handle this. 
CLARA: But Daddy. 
PICARD: Clara, if we need your help again, I hope we can count on you. 
CLARA: Yes, Captain. 
RIKER [OC]: Captain Picard, report to the Bridge. 
PICARD: On my way.

[Bridge]

PICARD: Report. 
RIKER: Our speed is down by twenty two percent. 
LAFORGE: Strand density is ten times what it was, Captain. We can't
take many more of these hits. 
PICARD: All stop. 
WORF: Sir, something is heading toward us, bearing one oh three mark oh
two four. 
PICARD: On screen. 
(it's a firefly) 
DATA: It appears to be an energy vortex of highly complex patterns.
Possibly a life form. 
RIKER: Red alert. 
DATA: It is in direct physical contact with our shields. 
WORF: Shield strength dropping to seventy five percent. Seventy two
percent. 
RIKER: The damn thing's feeding off our shields. Mister Data,
remodulate our shield frequencies. 
DATA: Aye, sir. No effect. 
(more fireflies turn up) 
WORF: Shield strength has dropped to sixty four percent. 
LAFORGE: We've got about eight minutes before this thing drains our
shields. 
RIKER: Any ideas?

[Arboretum]

(Picard, Sutter, Clara and Worf enter) 
CLARA: Isabella? Isabella? Don't you want to talk to me? I'm not mad at
you. Isabella? 
PICARD: We know you've been on this ship for some time now, and that
you're posing as Clara's friend, and that you've been threatening her.
We can only assume that there is some connection between yourself and
the life forms attacking this ship. You're obviously an intelligent
being. There's no reason to hide from us. Talk to us. Or can you only
communicate by threatening a small child? 
CLARA: I'm scared, Isabella. 
(Isabella appears) 
PICARD: Who are you? 
ISABELLA: I came here to determine whether you were a threat to us, and
to examine the purity of your energy sources. 
PICARD: Energy? Is that why you're draining our shields? 
ISABELLA: Yes. The emissions from your graviton field generators are
far richer than our normal sources of energy. 
(big shudder and light flicker) 
PICARD: Picard to Bridge. Report. 
RIKER [OC]: Shields are down to three percent. We're diverting all
available power. 
PICARD: Acknowledged. If it's energy that you want, we have other ways
of providing it. You needn't destroy us. 
ISABELLA: You should be destroyed. You are cruel, uncaring creatures. 
PICARD: What makes you say that? 
ISABELLA: The way you treat Clara. 
PICARD: In what way have we mistreated her? 
ISABELLA: You wouldn't let her do what she wanted to, or go where she
wanted to. 
PICARD: You mean where you wanted her to. 
ISABELLA: What difference does it make? 
PICARD: You were taking her to places that were inappropriate, even
dangerous. 
ISABELLA: I wouldn't have let anything happen to her. 
PICARD: We didn't know that. We didn't even know if you were real. All
we knew was that a little girl's imaginary friend was frightening her,
threatening her. 
ISABELLA: That was only after you told Clara not to be my friend. 
PICARD: I understand. You are seeing this ship, all of us, from a
unique perspective. From a child's point of view. It must seem terribly
unfair and restrictive to you. As adults, we don't always stop to
consider how everything we say and do shapes the impressions of young
people. But if you're judging us as a people by the way we treat our
children, and I think there can be better criterion, then you must
understand how deeply we care for them. When our children are young,
they don't understand what might be dangerous. Our rules are to keep
them from harm, real or imagined, and that's part of the continuity of
our human species. When Clara grows up, she will make rules for her
children to protect them, as we protect her. 
CLARA: Please don't hurt us. If you still want to be my best friend,
I'd like that very much. 
(Isabella turns into a firefly and sails away, taking all the other
fireflies with her) 
[Bridge]

PICARD: Status, Number One. 
RIKER: We're clear of the strands. We'll have full warp capability in
twenty minutes. 
PICARD: Notify all sections we'll be leaving this area in one hour. 
RIKER: Sir? 
PICARD: Mister La Forge, I want you to drive the warp engines to full
power, and direct a flow of energy out into the nebula. 
LAFORGE: Aye, sir.

