TROI LAFORGE WORF PICARD RIKER GUINAN BORG CRUSHER DATA SECURITY [OC]
little enters observation wondered implications negotiating assure interconnected comes

[Ready room]

PICARD: Come.
TROI: Captain, I just wondered if there's anything you wanted to talk
about.
PICARD: I don't think so, Counsellor.
TROI: I would have thought having a Borg on the ship would stir some
feelings.
PICARD: I'm quite recovered from my experience, thank you.
TROI: Sometimes even when a victim has dealt with his assault there are
residual effects of the event that linger. You were treated violently
by the Borg. 
Kidnapped, assaulted,
mutilated. 
PICARD: Counsellor. Counsellor, I very much appreciate your concern for
me, but I can assure you it is quite misplaced. I have carefully
considered the implications of having a Borg on this
ship. I have weighed the possible risks, and I am convinced that we are
doing the right thing. Now, I am quite comfortable with my decision.
TROI: I see. Well, if at any point you want to talk more.
PICARD: I shall certainly avail myself of your help.

[Brig]

(Crusher is treating the Borg inside the cell) 
WORF: Lower the forcefield.
(a medic enters the cell and the forcefield is raised again. Picard
enters the Brig) 
WORF: Captain, the Borg is still unconscious.
CRUSHER: He suffered massive internal injuries. We've been able to
control the haemorrhaging, but some of the implants in his brain were
damaged. I may have to remove them.
PICARD: The Borg will die if they're removed permanently. Their brains
grow dependent on the biochips.
CRUSHER: Perhaps Geordi can construct some new implants. 
LAFORGE: They contain relatively straightforward programming, interface
protocols. We have the files we downloaded after your experience,
Captain. I think I can manage it.
PICARD: Mister La Forge, do you know enough about Borg programming to
alter the pathways to their root command structure?
LAFORGE: I'm not sure, sir. The subroutines are pretty complicated. I'd
probably have to study the data processing algorithms. It's the only
way I could trace the access codes.
PICARD: If we could get to the root command, we could introduce an
invasive programming sequence through its biochip system and then
return it to the hive. 
LAFORGE: The Borg are so interconnected it would act like a virus.
PICARD: Which would infect the entire Collective. We could disable
their neural network at a stroke.
CRUSHER: Infect it? You make it sound like a disease.
PICARD: Quite right, Doctor. If all goes well, a terminal one.

[Observation lounge]

LAFORGE: If this works the way I think it will,
once the invasive programme starts spreading, it'll only be a matter of
months before the Borg suffer total systems failure.
PICARD: Comments.
CRUSHER: A question. What exactly is total systems failure?
DATA: The Borg are extremely computer dependent. A systems failure will
destroy them.
CRUSHER: I just think we should be plain about that. We're talking
about annihilating an entire race.
PICARD: Which under most circumstances would be unconscionable. But as
I see it, the Borg leave us with little choice.
RIKER: I agree. We're at war.
CRUSHER: There's been no formal declaration of war.
TROI: Not from us, but certainly from them. They've attacked us in
every encounter.
PICARD: They've declared war on our way of life. We are to be
assimilated.
CRUSHER: But even in war there are rules. You don't kill civilians
indiscriminately.
RIKER: There are no civilians among the Borg.
PICARD: Think of them as a single, collective being. There's no one
Borg who is more an individual than your arm or your leg.
CRUSHER: How convenient.
PICARD: Your point, Doctor?
CRUSHER: When I look at my patient, I don't see a collective
consciousness. I don't see a hive. I see a living, breathing boy who's
been hurt and who needs our help. And we're talking about sending him
back to his people as an instrument of destruction.
PICARD: It comes down to this. We're faced with an enemy who are
determined to destroy us, and we have no hope of negotiating a peace.
Unless that changes, we are justified in doing anything we can to
survive.
SECURITY [OC]: Security to Captain.
PICARD: Picard here.
SECURITY [OC]: The Borg has regained consciousness, sir.
PICARD: Acknowledged. We proceed with the plan.

[Brig]

(the Borg is checking every millimetre of the walls
and forcefield) 
CRUSHER: What's he doing?
PICARD: He's trying to find an access terminal so he can interface with
the collective. He doesn't understand that the signal has been cut off.
LAFORGE: He's emitting a homing signal and a second subspace beacon,
but our damping field is blocking both signals.
PICARD: He's alone. For the first time he's being forced to cope with
his environment without the resources of the Collective.
CRUSHER: He must be hungry. The Borg don't ingest food. Their implants
can synthesise any organic molecules the biological tissues require.
What they need is energy.
PICARD: Arrange to feed it.
LAFORGE: Aye, sir. 
(Picard leaves) 
LAFORGE: I'll have to adapt a power conduit and install it in there.
CRUSHER: If I didn't know better, I'd think he was scared.

[Gymnasium]

(Picard is fencing and beating an opponent who
turns out to be - ) 
GUINAN: I don't think I like this sport.
PICARD: Last week when you scored two touches, you liked it well
enough. Today you were dropping your foil. You kept letting me inside.
GUINAN: Ah, but if I lift up, you lunge right underneath. Let's face
it, you're just better at this than I am. I understand we have a guest
on board.
PICARD: Yes.
GUINAN: Is that wise?
PICARD: I'm not sure. I hope so.
GUINAN: I thought I understood you, Picard, but I don't understand this.
PICARD: It was an errand of mercy. He was injured, Doctor Crusher
decided for humanitarian reasons to care for him.
GUINAN: They're going to come after us, you know that. You, of all
people, know that.
PICARD: Shall we go again?
(after exchanging parries and thrusts, Guinan grabs her thigh in pain) 
PICARD: Are you all right? 
(she disarms him and scores a touch) 
GUINAN: You felt sorry for me. Look what it got you.

[Brig]

LAFORGE: I'll have to go in to connect the power
conduit.
WORF: I will follow the Commander. Reactivate the field once we're
through.
(the security guard does so. The Borg just watches) 
LAFORGE: Good. Now stay that way.
(the Borg steps forward) 
WORF: Commander.
(Geordi fits the new power conduit) 
BORG: We are Borg. You will be assimilated. Resistance is futile.
LAFORGE: Just look around, pal. You're hardly in a position to make any
demands.
BORG: We must return to the Collective.
LAFORGE: Who's we?
BORG: We are Borg.
LAFORGE: Yeah, but there's only one of you. Do you have a name? A means
of identification?
BORG: Third of five.
LAFORGE: There were five on your ship. Is that it? Just a number?
BORG: Third of five.
LAFORGE: It does kind of suit you. Okay. This is for you. It regulates
the power flow to the frequency that you're used to. This connection
should fit
the coupling on your arm. You're welcome. Let's get out of here.
WORF: Lower the forcefield.
(Geordi and Worf back out, the forcefield goes back up, and the Borg
goes to the conduit and plugs himself in) 
LAFORGE: He's hungry, all right.
BORG: Why do you do this?
LAFORGE: I'm just a nice guy at heart. You feeling better?
BORG: You are not Borg.
LAFORGE: That's right. And I hope to stay that way.
BORG: You will be assimilated. Resistance is futile.
LAFORGE: That's gratitude for you.

