RIKER LAFORGE PICARD GUINAN WORF [OC] BORG CRUSHER DATA
repercussions later young wipe choose mean face arm designed

[Observation lounge]

(on the wall monitor, topological anomaly 4747) 
LAFORGE: That's it, Captain.
PICARD: It looks harmless enough.
LAFORGE: We had to disguise it as something innocuous. The Borg have
ways of screening out programme anomalies.
PICARD: How can a geometric form disable a computer system?
DATA: The shape is a paradox, sir. It cannot exist in real space or
time.
LAFORGE: When Hugh's imaging apparatus imprints this on his biochips,
he'll try to analyse it.
DATA: He will be unsuccessful, and will store the shape in his memory
banks. It will be shunted to a subroutine for further analysis.
LAFORGE: Then when the Borg download his memory, it'll be incorporated
it into their network, then they'll try to analyse it.
DATA: It is designed so that each approach they take will spawn an
anomalous solution. The anomalies are designed to interact with each
other, linking together to form an endless and unsolvable puzzle.
PICARD: Quite original. How long before a total systems failure?
LAFORGE: Not until the shape has gone through several hundred
computational cycles.
PICARD: When can you begin the process?
LAFORGE: About another twenty hours. Doctor Crusher wants to make sure
the new implants have taken hold.
PICARD: Very well. Begin as soon as you're ready.
(Data leaves) 
LAFORGE: Captain. I have to admit I've been having second thoughts
about this plan.
PICARD: In what way?
LAFORGE: Well, I've been getting to know him. The Borg.
PICARD: I see.
LAFORGE: He's not what I expected, Captain. He's got feelings. He's
homesick. I don't know. It just doesn't seem right using him this way.
PICARD: Centuries ago, when laboratory animals were used for
experiments, scientists would sometimes become attached to the
creatures. This would a problem if the experiment involved killing
them. I would suggest that you unattach yourself from the Borg, Mister
La Forge.
LAFORGE: Aye, Captain.

[Picard's quarters]

(Picard is in his dressing gown when the doorbell
rings) 
PICARD: Guinan. Please, come in.
GUINAN: Are you sure? You look like you're preparing for a quiet
evening.
PICARD: No, I'm delighted to see you. Can I get you something to drink?
GUINAN: No, thank you. I was thinking about how you said the other day
that my foil was dipping. That I should get some exercise and
strengthen my arm.
PICARD: Well. a strong forearm is certainly an advantage in fencing.
GUINAN: And bartending. About the Borg. Aren't you the least bit
surprised by him?
PICARD: Surprised?
GUINAN: Did you know he has a name? La Forge gave it to him. His name's
Hugh. And he's lonely. I don't know what made me go see him. La Forge
said I should, but I said no. And suddenly there I was standing there,
staring at him. I thought it was just curiosity. Just curious. I need
to hear you say that you are sure you're doing the right thing.
PICARD: If you're here to persuade me not to use the invasive programme.
GUINAN: No. I think I need you to persuade me.
PICARD: Two days ago, you were so upset about the Borg even being on
the ship that you tore my foil out of my hand. And now you're here
questioning whether it should be treated as the enemy.
GUINAN: No. But when you talk to him face to face, can you honestly say
you don't have any doubt?
PICARD: I haven't talked to it.
GUINAN: Why not?
PICARD: I saw no need.
GUINAN: If you're going to use this person 
PICARD: It's not a person, damn it, it's a Borg!
GUINAN: If you are going to use this person to destroy his race, you
should at least look him in the eye once before you do it. Because I am
not sure he is still a Borg.
PICARD: Because it's been given a name by a member of my crew doesn't
mean it's not a Borg. Because it's young doesn't mean that it's
innocent. It is what it is, and in spite of efforts to turn it into
some kind of pet I will not alter my plans.
GUINAN: Fine. But if you don't talk to him at least once, you may find
that decision a harder to live with than you realise.

[Ready room]

WORF [OC]: Worf to Captain Picard.
PICARD: Yes, Lieutenant.
WORF [OC]: We are ready to transport.
PICARD: Proceed.
(Worf and Hugh are beamed in) 
PICARD: Lieutenant, you may wait outside.
(Worf hesitates then leaves) 
BORG: Locutus.
PICARD: Yes. I am Locutus of Borg.
BORG: Why are you here?
PICARD: This is a primitive culture. I am here to facilitate its
incorporation. Identify yourself.
BORG: Hugh.
PICARD: Identify yourself.
BORG: We are Hugh.
PICARD: This is not a Borg identification.
BORG: Third of Five.
PICARD: This culture will be assimilated.
BORG: They do not wish it.
PICARD: Irrelevant.
BORG: They will resist us.
PICARD: Resistance is futile.
BORG: Resistance is not futile. Some have escaped.
PICARD: They will be found. It is inevitable. All will be assimilated.
BORG: Must Geordi be assimilated?
PICARD: Yes.
BORG: He does not wish it. He would rather die than be assimilated.
PICARD: Then he will die.
BORG: No. Geordi must not die. Geordi is a friend.
PICARD: You will assist us to assimilate this vessel. You are Borg. You
will assist us.
BORG: I will not.
PICARD: What did you say?
BORG: I will not assist you.
PICARD: I?
BORG: Geordi must not be assimilated.
PICARD: But you are Borg.
BORG: No. I am Hugh.

[Observation lounge]

PICARD: I think I deliberately avoided speaking
with the Borg because I didn't want anything to get in the way of our
plan.
But now that I have, he seems to be a fully realised individual. He has
even accepted me as Picard, Captain of this ship, and not as Locutus.
LAFORGE: So you've reconsidered the plan?
PICARD: Yes. To use him in this manner, we'd be no better than the
enemy that we seek to destroy. So, I want other options.
RIKER: We could return him to the crash site. We'd have to remove his
memory of being on the Enterprise.
CRUSHER: But if we erase his memory, who he is or who he has become
would be destroyed.
RIKER: Isn't that the point? He'd be reassimilated into the hive
without any questions.
LAFORGE: Does that seems right, to help him become an individual and
then take that away from him? 
CRUSHER: Is there any danger that the Borg might destroy him if they
find out what's happened?
PICARD: I doubt it. There'd be nothing to gain. It's more likely that
they would simply wipe out his memory of those experiences.
RIKER: Then either way, his memory would have been erased.
PICARD: But perhaps in that short time before they purge his memory,
the sense of individuality which he has gained here might be
transmitted throughout the entire Borg Collective. Every one of the
Borg being given the opportunity to experience the feeling of
singularity. Perhaps that's the most pernicious programme of all. The
knowledge of self being spread throughout the Collective, in that brief
moment, might alter them forever. We leave his memory intact.
CRUSHER: I have a question. What if he doesn't want to go back?

[Ready room]

LAFORGE: Hello, Hugh.
BORG: Hello, Geordi.
PICARD: Hugh, a Borg rescue vessel is approaching. It will be here
within three hours. We can return you to the crash site, where they
will find you and take then you home. Or, if you wish, you can stay
here with us.
BORG: What I wish is irrelevant.
LAFORGE: It's not irrelevant, Hugh. It matters to us.
BORG: No Borg leaves the Collective. If they find I am missing, they
will come for me.
PICARD: Well, we'll deal with the repercussions later. We must know
what you want.
BORG: You are many, I am one. What I want is not important.
LAFORGE: Don't you understand, Hugh? We're giving you a choice.
BORG: Choice?
LAFORGE: Yes, a choice. Do you want to go back with the Borg or stay
with us?
BORG: I could stay with you?
PICARD: We could grant you asylum, Hugh.
BORG: Choose what I want? I would choose to stay with Geordi, but it is
too dangerous. They will follow. Return me to the crash site. It is the
only way.
LAFORGE: Hugh, think about this. Are you sure?
BORG: Yes.

[Transporter room]

PICARD: The Borg ship will enter orbit in one hour.
You'll soon be headed home. We'll beam him down and then we'll take up
a position in the star's chromosphere. The interference will hide us
from their sensors. 
CRUSHER: Goodbye, Hugh. It was nice getting to know you.
BORG: Goodbye, Beverly. You saved my life.
LAFORGE: Hugh, it's not too late to change your mind. 
BORG: I must return.
LAFORGE: Captain, I'd like to go down with him.
PICARD: My experience suggests that they would ignore him. Would you
agree?
BORG: The Borg assimilate civilisations, not individuals.
CRUSHER: But, Captain, they kidnapped you. 
PICARD: Because they needed a liaison to communicate with humans. They
ignored every away team we sent to their ship, including yours, Doctor.
You may accompany him. Goodbye.
BORG: Captain, I do not want to forget that I am Hugh.
PICARD: Energise.

