RIKER LAFORGE PICARD GUINAN BORG DATA

[Ten Forward]

LAFORGE: You know, it's funny. When I first
creating this invasive programme I didn't have a problem with it. The
more I work with Hugh, the more I 
GUINAN: Hugh?
LAFORGE: That's what we call him.
GUINAN: You named the Borg? 
LAFORGE: Well, it was easier to have something to call him.
GUINAN: Oh, so now you have a Borg named Hugh.
LAFORGE: Right. And he's nothing like what I expected.
GUINAN: How so?
LAFORGE: I don't know. It's like he's just some kid who's far way from
home.
GUINAN: Do you know that you're the second person today to refer to
that Borg as though it were some sort of lost child.
LAFORGE: Anyway, I'm having second thoughts about what we're doing
here. I mean, programming him like some sort of walking bomb. Sending
him back to
destroy the others.
GUINAN: Let me tell you something. When that kid's big brothers come
looking for him, they're not going to stop until they find him. And
then they're going to come looking for us, and they will destroy us.
And they will not do any of the soul-searching that you are apparently
doing right now.
LAFORGE: Then why don't you go and talk to him. It might not be so
clear cut then.
GUINAN: Because I wouldn't have anything to say.
LAFORGE: Then why don't you just listen? That is what you do best,
isn't it?

[Bridge]

PICARD: What is it, Number One?
RIKER: We've picked up a vessel on the long range scanners, headed this
way.
PICARD: Analysis.
DATA: The vessel is traveling at warp seven point six. Mass two point
five million metric tons. Configuration, cubical.
RIKER: The Borg.
DATA: Its dimensions indicate that it is a scout ship similar to the
one that crashed. Interference from the star's
radiation will shield us from their sensors. We should remain
undetected until they enter the system.
PICARD: How long do we have?
DATA: At present speed they will arrive in thirty one hours seven
minutes.

[Brig]

GUINAN: You don't look so tough.
BORG: We are Borg.
GUINAN: Aren't you going to tell me you have to assimilate me?
BORG: You wish to be assimilated?
GUINAN: No, but that's what you things do, isn't it?
(a nod) 
GUINAN: Resistance is futile. 
BORG: Resistance is futile.
GUINAN: It isn't. My people resisted when the Borg came to assimilate
us. Some of us survived.
BORG: Resistance is not futile? 
GUINAN: No. But thanks to you, there are very few of us left. We're
scattered throughout the galaxy. We don't even have a home any more. 
BORG: What you are saying is that you are lonely.
GUINAN: What?
BORG: You have no others. You have no home. We are also lonely.

[Science lab]

BORG: What is Geordi doing?
LAFORGE: I'm studying the components in your prosthesis.
BORG: Why?
LAFORGE: We're trying to learn more about you.
BORG: Why?
LAFORGE: Because you're different than we are. Part of what we do is to
learn more about other species.
BORG: We assimilate species. Then we know everything about them.
LAFORGE: Yeah. I know.
BORG: Is that not easier?
LAFORGE: Maybe it is. It's just not what we do.
BORG: Why?
LAFORGE: All right, think of it this way. Every time you talk about
yourself, you use the word we. We want this, we want that. You don't
even know how to think of yourself as a single individual. You don't
say, I want this, or I am Hugh. We are all separate individuals. I am
Geordi. I choose what I want to do with my life. I make decisions for
myself. For somebody like me, losing that sense of individuality is
almost worse than dying.
BORG: When you sleep, there are no other voices in your mind?
LAFORGE: No.
BORG: Are you ever lonely?
LAFORGE: Sometimes. But that's why we have friends.
BORG: Friends?
LAFORGE: Sure. Someone you talk to, who will be with you when you're
lonely. Someone who makes you feel better.
BORG: Like Geordi and Hugh.

[Observation lounge]

(on the wall monitor, topological anomaly 4747) 
LAFORGE: That's it, Captain.
PICARD: It looks harmless enough.
LAFORGE: We had to disguise it as something innocuous. The Borg have
ways of screening out programme anomalies.
PICARD: How can a geometric form disable a computer system?
DATA: The shape is a paradox, sir. It cannot exist in real space or
time.
LAFORGE: When Hugh's imaging apparatus imprints this on his biochips,
he'll try to analyse it.
DATA: He will be unsuccessful, and will store the shape in his memory
banks. It will be shunted to a subroutine for further analysis.
LAFORGE: Then when the Borg download his memory, it'll be incorporated
it into their network, then they'll try to analyse it.
DATA: It is designed so that each approach they take will spawn an
anomalous solution. The anomalies are designed to interact with each
other, linking together to form an endless and unsolvable puzzle.
PICARD: Quite original. How long before a total systems failure?
LAFORGE: Not until the shape has gone through several hundred
computational cycles.
PICARD: When can you begin the process?
LAFORGE: About another twenty hours. Doctor Crusher wants to make sure
the new implants have taken hold.
PICARD: Very well. Begin as soon as you're ready.
(Data leaves) 
LAFORGE: Captain. I have to admit I've been having second thoughts
about this plan.
PICARD: In what way?
LAFORGE: Well, I've been getting to know him. The Borg.
PICARD: I see.
LAFORGE: He's not what I expected, Captain. He's got feelings. He's
homesick. I don't know. It just doesn't seem right using him this way.
PICARD: Centuries ago, when laboratory animals were used for
experiments, scientists would sometimes become attached to the
creatures. This would a problem if the experiment involved killing
them. I would suggest that you unattach yourself from the Borg, Mister
La Forge.
LAFORGE: Aye, Captain.

[Picard's quarters]

(Picard is in his dressing gown when the doorbell
rings) 
PICARD: Guinan. Please, come in.
GUINAN: Are you sure? You look like you're preparing for a quiet
evening.
PICARD: No, I'm delighted to see you. Can I get you something to drink?
GUINAN: No, thank you. I was thinking about how you said the other day
that my foil was dipping. That I should get some exercise and
strengthen my arm.
PICARD: Well. a strong forearm is certainly an advantage in fencing.
GUINAN: And bartending. About the Borg. Aren't you the least bit
surprised by him?
PICARD: Surprised?
GUINAN: Did you know he has a name? La Forge gave it to him. His name's
Hugh. And he's lonely. I don't know what made me go see him. La Forge
said I should, but I said no. And suddenly there I was standing there,
staring at him. I thought it was just curiosity. Just curious. I need
to hear you say that you are sure you're doing the right thing.
PICARD: If you're here to persuade me not to use the invasive programme.
GUINAN: No. I think I need you to persuade me.
PICARD: Two days ago, you were so upset about the Borg even being on
the ship that you tore my foil out of my hand. And now you're here
questioning whether it should be treated as the enemy.
GUINAN: No. But when you talk to him face to face, can you honestly say
you don't have any doubt?
PICARD: I haven't talked to it.
GUINAN: Why not?
PICARD: I saw no need.
GUINAN: If you're going to use this person 
PICARD: It's not a person, damn it, it's a Borg!
GUINAN: If you are going to use this person to destroy his race, you
should at least look him in the eye once before you do it. Because I am
not sure he is still a Borg.
PICARD: Because it's been given a name by a member of my crew doesn't
mean it's not a Borg. Because it's young doesn't mean that it's
innocent. It is what it is, and in spite of efforts to turn it into
some kind of pet I will not alter my plans.
GUINAN: Fine. But if you don't talk to him at least once, you may find
that decision a harder to live with than you realise.

