PICARD [OC] RIKER LAFORGE WORF PICARD TROI CRUSHER [OC] CRUSHER DATA SECURITY [OC]
weighed declared enters room require environment carefully ready justified

[Crash site]

WORF: Four more. None survived.
PICARD [OC]: Picard to Riker.
RIKER: Go ahead, Enterprise.

[Bridge]

PICARD: We are transporting you directly to the
detention cell.
CRUSHER [OC]: I need him in Sickbay, Captain.
PICARD: The cell, Doctor. Whatever equipment you need will be brought
to you there.
CRUSHER [OC]: Very well. 
(Picard goes to his Ready room, and Troi follows)

[Ready room]

PICARD: Come.
TROI: Captain, I just wondered if there's anything you wanted to talk
about.
PICARD: I don't think so, Counsellor.
TROI: I would have thought having a Borg on the ship would stir some
feelings.
PICARD: I'm quite recovered from my experience, thank you.
TROI: Sometimes even when a victim has dealt with his assault there are
residual effects of the event that linger. You were treated violently
by the Borg. 
Kidnapped, assaulted,
mutilated. 
PICARD: Counsellor. Counsellor, I very much appreciate your concern for
me, but I can assure you it is quite misplaced. I have carefully
considered the implications of having a Borg on this
ship. I have weighed the possible risks, and I am convinced that we are
doing the right thing. Now, I am quite comfortable with my decision.
TROI: I see. Well, if at any point you want to talk more.
PICARD: I shall certainly avail myself of your help.

[Brig]

(Crusher is treating the Borg inside the cell) 
WORF: Lower the forcefield.
(a medic enters the cell and the forcefield is raised again. Picard
enters the Brig) 
WORF: Captain, the Borg is still unconscious.
CRUSHER: He suffered massive internal injuries. We've been able to
control the haemorrhaging, but some of the implants in his brain were
damaged. I may have to remove them.
PICARD: The Borg will die if they're removed permanently. Their brains
grow dependent on the biochips.
CRUSHER: Perhaps Geordi can construct some new implants. 
LAFORGE: They contain relatively straightforward programming, interface
protocols. We have the files we downloaded after your experience,
Captain. I think I can manage it.
PICARD: Mister La Forge, do you know enough about Borg programming to
alter the pathways to their root command structure?
LAFORGE: I'm not sure, sir. The subroutines are pretty complicated. I'd
probably have to study the data processing algorithms. It's the only
way I could trace the access codes.
PICARD: If we could get to the root command, we could introduce an
invasive programming sequence through its biochip system and then
return it to the hive. 
LAFORGE: The Borg are so interconnected it would act like a virus.
PICARD: Which would infect the entire Collective. We could disable
their neural network at a stroke.
CRUSHER: Infect it? You make it sound like a disease.
PICARD: Quite right, Doctor. If all goes well, a terminal one.

[Observation lounge]

LAFORGE: If this works the way I think it will,
once the invasive programme starts spreading, it'll only be a matter of
months before the Borg suffer total systems failure.
PICARD: Comments.
CRUSHER: A question. What exactly is total systems failure?
DATA: The Borg are extremely computer dependent. A systems failure will
destroy them.
CRUSHER: I just think we should be plain about that. We're talking
about annihilating an entire race.
PICARD: Which under most circumstances would be unconscionable. But as
I see it, the Borg leave us with little choice.
RIKER: I agree. We're at war.
CRUSHER: There's been no formal declaration of war.
TROI: Not from us, but certainly from them. They've attacked us in
every encounter.
PICARD: They've declared war on our way of life. We are to be
assimilated.
CRUSHER: But even in war there are rules. You don't kill civilians
indiscriminately.
RIKER: There are no civilians among the Borg.
PICARD: Think of them as a single, collective being. There's no one
Borg who is more an individual than your arm or your leg.
CRUSHER: How convenient.
PICARD: Your point, Doctor?
CRUSHER: When I look at my patient, I don't see a collective
consciousness. I don't see a hive. I see a living, breathing boy who's
been hurt and who needs our help. And we're talking about sending him
back to his people as an instrument of destruction.
PICARD: It comes down to this. We're faced with an enemy who are
determined to destroy us, and we have no hope of negotiating a peace.
Unless that changes, we are justified in doing anything we can to
survive.
SECURITY [OC]: Security to Captain.
PICARD: Picard here.
SECURITY [OC]: The Borg has regained consciousness, sir.
PICARD: Acknowledged. We proceed with the plan.

[Brig]

(the Borg is checking every millimetre of the walls
and forcefield) 
CRUSHER: What's he doing?
PICARD: He's trying to find an access terminal so he can interface with
the collective. He doesn't understand that the signal has been cut off.
LAFORGE: He's emitting a homing signal and a second subspace beacon,
but our damping field is blocking both signals.
PICARD: He's alone. For the first time he's being forced to cope with
his environment without the resources of the Collective.
CRUSHER: He must be hungry. The Borg don't ingest food. Their implants
can synthesise any organic molecules the biological tissues require.
What they need is energy.
PICARD: Arrange to feed it.
LAFORGE: Aye, sir. 
(Picard leaves) 
LAFORGE: I'll have to adapt a power conduit and install it in there.
CRUSHER: If I didn't know better, I'd think he was scared.

