RIKER LAFORGE WORF PICARD BROSSMER RO DATA

[Romulan Engineering]

(a Romulan confers with Guy Vardeman as Worf
enters) 
WORF: Commander, the (looks round) the Romulans want a computer. We
cannot give them access to Federation technology. That is an
unacceptable security risk. 
RIKER: What about a computer core from thirty or forty years ago? One
the Romulans are already familiar with. 
WORF: That would be satisfactory. 
RIKER: Check with the Enterprise, see what's available. Be sure your
concern are addressed before we install it. 
WORF: Aye, sir. Thank you.

[Engineering]

(Geordi is failing to attract anyone's attention) 
RO: La Forge? 
LAFORGE: Ro. Boy, am I glad to see you. And I'm really glad that you
can see me. It's like I'm here, but I'm not here. 
RO: No one can see me either. 
LAFORGE: I can't figure it out. One minute we were transporting from
the Romulan vessel, and the next I wake up in the arboretum with a
splitting headache. Can you pass through things like bulkheads? 
RO: Tables, people, yeah. 
(they touch hands) 
LAFORGE: Well, we're solid enough to each other. 
RO: It's not what you expected, is it. 
LAFORGE: What do you mean? 
RO: This. Death. 
LAFORGE: What? 
RO: We're dead, Geordi. 
LAFORGE: Is that some kind of a joke? 
RO: Our patterns were lost in a transporter malfunction. We never
rematerialised after leaving the Romulan ship. 
LAFORGE: Wait a minute. What are you saying, that we're some sort of
spirits? 
RO: Spirits, souls. My people used to call them borhyas. Whatever term
you want to use, we're it. 
LAFORGE: But my uniform, my visor. Are you saying I'm some blind ghost
with clothes? 
RO: I don't have all the answers. I've never been dead before. 
LAFORGE: We are not dead. 
RO: According to Doctor Crusher, we died in a transporter malfunction
at fourteen thirty hours.
Geordi, I saw her make out the death certificates. We need to make
peace with our former lives. That's what I was taught. We have to say
goodbye to the people who were in our lives. 
LAFORGE: No. You may be ready for the afterlife, but I'm not. 
RO: I don't see that we have much of a choice. When I was growing up, I
never gave much thought to all the talk about borhyas. I figured that
it was just superstition passed on to children. 
LAFORGE: Fine. You go make peace with yourself, all right? I'm going to
transporter room three. I'm going to figure a way out of this
situation.

[Transporter room]

BROSSMER: I didn't have any warning that something
would go wrong, sir. Suddenly their patterns just weren't there. 
DATA: I believe the cause of the accident may be related to the
explosion on the Romulan ship. 
LAFORGE: Really? 
BROSSMER: But that happened before we even arrived. 
DATA: In all likelihood, the explosion damaged the Romulan cloaking
device, causing it to discharge chroniton particles.
I am detecting a chroniton field in here. 
LAFORGE: A chroniton field? 
BROSSMER: If the particles were produced on the Romulan ship, why are
you detecting them here? 
LAFORGE: The transporter beam. 
DATA: I suspect they travelled through the transporter beam. That may
have been the cause of Geordi and Ro's death.
I will go to the Romulan ship. Perhaps I can discover the source of the
emissions. 
BROSSMER: Commander, are these chronitons dangerous? 
DATA: They pose no danger to humans. However, some of the ship's
systems may be affected by prolonged exposure. When I return I will
devise a method to eradicate them. 
LAFORGE: La Forge to Ensign Ro. (then realises the comm. system doesn't
work for them)

[Bridge]

(Ro follows a crewman out of the turbolift) 
RO: Thanks for the ride. I'm here to say goodbye. 
(she gently touches her helm console, then Riker and Picard enter) 
RIKER: There are a lot of what appear to be experimental engine
components lying around over there. I'd say they were testing a new
warp drive design and it blew up in their faces.

[Ready room]

PICARD: That would explain why they're so far away
from Romulan space. To avoid being picked up on Federation long range
scans. 
RIKER: We should have an engine core ready for them by nineteen hundred
hours. 
PICARD: Commander, there'll be a memorial service at twenty three
hundred hours this evening. Mister Data is making arrangements. 
RIKER: I'll be there. 
RO: Me, too. 
RIKER: In fact I might like to say a few words. 
PICARD: You did know La Forge longer than any of us. 
RIKER: Actually, I was thinking more about Ensign Ro. 
RO: Me? 
PICARD: When you're ready, coordinate with Mister Data. 
RO: Wait a minute. What are you going to say about me? 
(Riker leaves) 
RO: Captain. I don't believe this. I'm dead. you can't even hear me and
I'm still intimidated by you. I just wanted to say thank you. For
trusting in me when no one else would. 
LAFORGE: Hey, there you are. Excuse me, Captain. Listen, Data's taking
the next shuttle over to the Romulan vessel and we need to be on it. 
RO: Why? 
LAFORGE: because I think what happened to us, the answers are over
there. 
RO: Why can't you just accept the fact 
LAFORGE: Look, if you're right then we're dead and this doesn't make
any difference. But if I'm right, then we're still alive and I'm going
to need your help.

[Shuttlecraft]

DATA: Lieutenant, I am planning a memorial service
for Commander La Forge and Ensign Ro. I would like you to participate. 
WORF: What kind of service? 
DATA: Captain Picard asked me to arrange a ceremony that was
appropriate. I have given a great deal of thought as to what is
appropriate in this instance. 
WORF: Sir, shuttlecraft four has not yet cleared the Romulan ship. 
DATA: Hold position here. 
LAFORGE: This is weird, listening to them plan our funeral. 
DATA: I find I am having difficulty deciding what kind of service to
have. Do you have any suggestions? 
WORF: Human custom is to conduct a solemn, dignified service in which
the dead are praised by their friends and loved ones. 
DATA: Ensign Ro was Bajoran. Her beliefs should be reflected as well.
However their death rituals are quite complicated. 
RO: Please, not the Death Chant. 
WORF: The Bajoran Death Chant is over two hours long. 
DATA: I am not certain that either human or Bajoran rites are fitting,
and I have researched the funerary customs of over five thousand
cultures to no avail. 
WORF: Shuttlecraft four has just cleared. 
DATA: Resume course. In almost all societies, it is traditional to say
a ritual farewell to those you call friends.
I never knew what a friend was until I met Geordi. He spoke to me as
though I were human. He treated me no differently from anyone else. He
accepted me for what I am. And that, I have learned, is friendship. But
I do not know how to say goodbye. 
RO: He seems almost human, doesn't he. 
WORF: Commander, I am not the proper person to advise you. 
DATA: Why? 
WORF: I am very happy for Commander La Forge. He has crossed over to
that which is beyond. For a Klingon, this is a joyful time. A friend
has died in the line of duty and he has earned a place among the
honoured dead. It is not a time to mourn. 
DATA: Begin docking procedure. 
LAFORGE: Data, that's a nice sentiment, but a little premature. I don't
plan on being commemorated before my time.

