RO RIKER BROSSMER LAFORGE PICARD MIROK [on viewscreen] PAREM MCDOWELL DATA BROSSMER [OC] MAN
riker woman sweep believes patterns intensity way quarters minute

[Engineering]

(Geordi is persisting in putting new fields in the
pool table) 
LAFORGE: Data, stop being so rational. Try using your imagination once
in a while. These aren't just random patterns, it's me! 
(Data catches Geordi's hand with his spray) 
LAFORGE: Hey, watch where you point that thing. Wait a minute, Data, I
think you did something here . It's not so easy to push through any
more. The molecules in my hand must have been partially de-phased by
the anyon beam. Data, if a low level beam can bring my hand part of the
way back, maybe a high level beam can bring me all of the way back.
I'll just have to get you to turn up the beam intensity so that. Hey,
wait a minute, don't stop now. No, no, no. Data, don't give up on it.
It works, I was just creating more fields. Your method is fine. You
just need to turn up the intensity, Data.

[Corridor]

(The Romulan has Ro at gunpoint)
RO: He's in here.

[Transporter room]

(Ro walks through the door first and dodges to the
side. She attacks the Romulan and knocks him down. Then she runs, and
the disrupter beam just misses her)

[Engineering]

BROSSMER [OC]: Brossmer to Commander Data. 
DATA: Data here. 
BROSSMER [OC]: I've just detected a large chroniton field on deck
seventeen. The field strength is three hundred percent above the others
we've found, sir. 
LAFORGE: Is that Ro? 
DATA: Acknowledged.

[Crew quarters]

(Ro and Parem run through the quarters of a woman
in a state of undress, as Data tracks their progress on his tricorder.
Then through a crewman doing press-ups and into a room where a man and
woman are having a romantic dinner. Parem shoots Ro in the leg. Data is
outside the door.) 
PAREM: Get up. Where is the science officer? 
(the doorbell rings, and the distraction enables Ro to turn the tables
on Parem. They fight.) 
MAN: I'll go. Commander? 
DATA: Excuse me for interrupting, Lieutenant. 
LAFORGE: Ro! 
DATA: I'm detecting a chroniton field in your room. May I scan the
area? 
(meanwhile, Geordi has piled into the fight and knocked Parem out
through the hull into space, where even an out of phase Romulan cannot
survive) 
MAN: Certainly. 
RO: Thanks. 
LAFORGE: Any time. 
[Bridge]

LAFORGE: There's still no indication that the
Romulans set up a muon wave in our dilithium chamber. 
RO: It's there, and when they go to warp 
MCDOWELL: Incoming message from the Romulan ship, Captain. 
PICARD: On screen. 
LAFORGE: Now what? 
MIROK [on viewscreen]: Installation of the new engine core has been
completed. We are ready to switch to internal power, Enterprise. 
PICARD: Understood. Disconnect the power-transfer beam. 
MIROK [on viewscreen]: We are now on internal power. Captain Picard,
please accept my sincere thanks on behalf the Romulan Empire. 
RO: Don't listen to him, Captain. 
PICARD: It was our pleasure, Mirok. And I hope that this example of
cooperation between our two peoples will not be an isolated incident. 
MIROK [on viewscreen]: As do I, Captain. 
(transmission ends) 
PICARD: Set a course for the Garadius system. Warp six. 
LAFORGE: No, Captain wait. 
RO: Don't do it, sir. 
BROSSMER: Captain. I'm still running the decontamination programme.
Mister Data believes we shouldn't engage the warp drive until I've
cleared all the chroniton fields from the ship. 
PICARD: Very well. Let me know when you finished your sweep. 
BROSSMER: Yes, sir. 
RO: If we can get to the locations that she's decontaminating, maybe
the anyon emissions would re-phase us enough for someone to see us. 
LAFORGE: Yeah, well the beam strength would have to be pretty strong in
order for us to be visible for more than a millisecond. Somebody's
going to have to be looking directly at us. 
RO: Then we're going to have to go somewhere with an awful lot of
people. 
(Riker enters) 
RIKER: It's time, sir. We should go. 
PICARD: You have the Bridge, Mister McDowell. I'll be at the service in
Ten Forward. 
LAFORGE: Ten Forward? Well, that's perfect. We'll create as many
chroniton fields in there as we can. Get them to flood that room with a
stronger beam.

