RIKER RO LAFORGE WORF PICARD BROSSMER VAREL MIROK DATA

[Transporter room]

BROSSMER: I didn't have any warning that something
would go wrong, sir. Suddenly their patterns just weren't there. 
DATA: I believe the cause of the accident may be related to the
explosion on the Romulan ship. 
LAFORGE: Really? 
BROSSMER: But that happened before we even arrived. 
DATA: In all likelihood, the explosion damaged the Romulan cloaking
device, causing it to discharge chroniton particles.
I am detecting a chroniton field in here. 
LAFORGE: A chroniton field? 
BROSSMER: If the particles were produced on the Romulan ship, why are
you detecting them here? 
LAFORGE: The transporter beam. 
DATA: I suspect they travelled through the transporter beam. That may
have been the cause of Geordi and Ro's death.
I will go to the Romulan ship. Perhaps I can discover the source of the
emissions. 
BROSSMER: Commander, are these chronitons dangerous? 
DATA: They pose no danger to humans. However, some of the ship's
systems may be affected by prolonged exposure. When I return I will
devise a method to eradicate them. 
LAFORGE: La Forge to Ensign Ro. (then realises the comm. system doesn't
work for them)

[Bridge]

(Ro follows a crewman out of the turbolift) 
RO: Thanks for the ride. I'm here to say goodbye. 
(she gently touches her helm console, then Riker and Picard enter) 
RIKER: There are a lot of what appear to be experimental engine
components lying around over there. I'd say they were testing a new
warp drive design and it blew up in their faces.

[Ready room]

PICARD: That would explain why they're so far away
from Romulan space. To avoid being picked up on Federation long range
scans. 
RIKER: We should have an engine core ready for them by nineteen hundred
hours. 
PICARD: Commander, there'll be a memorial service at twenty three
hundred hours this evening. Mister Data is making arrangements. 
RIKER: I'll be there. 
RO: Me, too. 
RIKER: In fact I might like to say a few words. 
PICARD: You did know La Forge longer than any of us. 
RIKER: Actually, I was thinking more about Ensign Ro. 
RO: Me? 
PICARD: When you're ready, coordinate with Mister Data. 
RO: Wait a minute. What are you going to say about me? 
(Riker leaves) 
RO: Captain. I don't believe this. I'm dead. you can't even hear me and
I'm still intimidated by you. I just wanted to say thank you. For
trusting in me when no one else would. 
LAFORGE: Hey, there you are. Excuse me, Captain. Listen, Data's taking
the next shuttle over to the Romulan vessel and we need to be on it. 
RO: Why? 
LAFORGE: because I think what happened to us, the answers are over
there. 
RO: Why can't you just accept the fact 
LAFORGE: Look, if you're right then we're dead and this doesn't make
any difference. But if I'm right, then we're still alive and I'm going
to need your help.

[Shuttlecraft]

DATA: Lieutenant, I am planning a memorial service
for Commander La Forge and Ensign Ro. I would like you to participate. 
WORF: What kind of service? 
DATA: Captain Picard asked me to arrange a ceremony that was
appropriate. I have given a great deal of thought as to what is
appropriate in this instance. 
WORF: Sir, shuttlecraft four has not yet cleared the Romulan ship. 
DATA: Hold position here. 
LAFORGE: This is weird, listening to them plan our funeral. 
DATA: I find I am having difficulty deciding what kind of service to
have. Do you have any suggestions? 
WORF: Human custom is to conduct a solemn, dignified service in which
the dead are praised by their friends and loved ones. 
DATA: Ensign Ro was Bajoran. Her beliefs should be reflected as well.
However their death rituals are quite complicated. 
RO: Please, not the Death Chant. 
WORF: The Bajoran Death Chant is over two hours long. 
DATA: I am not certain that either human or Bajoran rites are fitting,
and I have researched the funerary customs of over five thousand
cultures to no avail. 
WORF: Shuttlecraft four has just cleared. 
DATA: Resume course. In almost all societies, it is traditional to say
a ritual farewell to those you call friends.
I never knew what a friend was until I met Geordi. He spoke to me as
though I were human. He treated me no differently from anyone else. He
accepted me for what I am. And that, I have learned, is friendship. But
I do not know how to say goodbye. 
RO: He seems almost human, doesn't he. 
WORF: Commander, I am not the proper person to advise you. 
DATA: Why? 
WORF: I am very happy for Commander La Forge. He has crossed over to
that which is beyond. For a Klingon, this is a joyful time. A friend
has died in the line of duty and he has earned a place among the
honoured dead. It is not a time to mourn. 
DATA: Begin docking procedure. 
LAFORGE: Data, that's a nice sentiment, but a little premature. I don't
plan on being commemorated before my time.

[Romulan Engineering]

(Geordi sticks his head inside a piece of
equipment) 
MIROK: I'm afraid I fail to see the point of this investigation,
Commander. 
DATA: Chroniton emissions may have been responsible for the accident
which claimed the lives of our officers. 
VAREL: A most regrettable event, of course. 
DATA: Was your cloaking device damaged in the explosion? 
MIROK: All of our systems were damaged, including the cloaking device. 
DATA: That explains the chroniton fields I am detecting in here now.
For your own safety, it is important to eliminate those emissions. 
VAREL: Our safety? 
DATA: There is no way to predict what will happen when the chronitons
interact with the new engine core. 
LAFORGE: I've never seen anything like this. There's something in here
that looks like a molecular phase inverter. 
RO: What's that? 
LAFORGE: It's supposed to change the structure of matter so it can pass
through normal matter and energy. Hang on a second. A few years back,
we got intelligence reports that the Klingons were working on trying to
combine a phase inverter and a cloaking
device. In theory, they believed that a phased ship could hide
anywhere, even inside a planet, and that conventional weapons would be
useless against it. 
RO: How far did they get in their research? 
LAFORGE: It never got out of the preliminary stages. There were several
accidents. The Romulans might be pursuing the same
technology, trying to combine an inverter and a cloaking device. And if
this is the prototype 
RO: Then that would explain the explosion and the chroniton fields. 
LAFORGE: And us. 
RO: You mean we're cloaked? 
LAFORGE: Not just cloaked, phased. Our entire molecular structure
altered so that we don't have any substance. 
RO: Then that would mean we're not dead. 
LAFORGE: Yes. It would also mean that there's probably a way to
de-phase us. 
DATA: The field emissions are particularly strong in this area. 
(the equipment Geordi was examining) 
MIROK: You can be assured that the emissions will be eliminated before
the engine core is replaced. 
WORF: Commander, may I speak with you? 
(Data moves away) 
VAREL: If they come back they're going to discover the interphase
generator. 
MIROK: Is their power transfer beam still at full intensity? 
VAREL: Yes. It will be until we're ready to switch to internal power. 
MIROK: We will set up a muon feedback wave inside the transfer beam.
The particles will accumulate in their dilithium chamber. When they go
to warp speed, their engines will explode. 
LAFORGE: We've got to get to the Enterprise and warn them. 
RO: How? 
LAFORGE: I don't know, but we have to find a way. Come on. 
(A Romulan who had been sitting in a chair gets up, walks through a
console and follows them. He gets to the Enterprise on a shuttle, too)

[Engineering]

RO: The muon feedback wave's not showing up on any
of the engine displays. 
LAFORGE: The Romulans must be hiding it in a sensor return signal.
Unless someone runs a level three diagnostic, they'd never detect it.
There must be a way to warn them before the ship goes to warp. 
DATA: This is puzzling. Three more chroniton fields have formed aboard
the Enterprise in the last hour. 
LAFORGE: There's no reason why the interphase device would be producing
new fields aboard this ship. 
DATA: We should begin decontamination immediately. Run an internal
sensor sweep for locations of all chroniton fields on the Enterprise. 
BROSSMER: Aye, sir. The following areas are showing contamination.
Sickbay, Transporter room three, main Bridge, Captain's Ready room,
shuttlebay two, and main Engineering. 
LAFORGE: Ro, look at this. 
DATA: I do not understand how these new fields have formed. No
transporter beam has been active in any of those areas. I cannot see
that they have anything in common. 
LAFORGE: Oh, yes they do. 
DATA: In fact, they seem to be appearing at random. 
LAFORGE: No, they're not. We were in every one of those locations.
Somehow we're leaving chroniton footprints behind us. 
DATA: Can you narrow the focus of the scan to pinpoint the locations? 
BROSSMER: Not with the internal sensors, Commander. 
DATA: Go to science station two on the main Bridge. Use a lateral
sensor array to get a more precise reading. I will modify an anyon
emitter to eliminate the fields once they've been isolated. 
LAFORGE: Why don't you go with her and see what the lateral sensors
turn up. I'll stay here with Data. 
RO: Right. 
(Data is scanning with a tricorder, then spraying) 
LAFORGE: Well that's interesting. You're reading chroniton readings in
here, but not from me? There's a field in this wall? Why? Data, I came
through this wall. I walked right through it when I came in here. When
the phased matter in my body passed through the wall, it must've
disrupted the wall's molecular structure producing a chroniton field.
Data, I'm right here that's me you're reading. Watch. 
(Geordi walks through the 'pool table' and Data detects the field) 
LAFORGE: Come on, it's me. You see?

