RIKER CRUSHER WORF PICARD MIROK RO DATA

[Corridor]

(Picard walks past Ro lying on the floor. She wakes
up) 
RO: Ensign Ro to the Bridge. This is Ensign Ro reporting in. I'm at
section twenty three baker, near Sickbay. (she wobbles) Sickbay. 
[Sickbay]

(the door doesn't open for her, but she gets in
when a man walks out) 
RO: Excuse me, I need some help. Excuse me? Excuse me, I need some
help. 
(but everyone ignores her) 
RO: Excuse me! I need some help! 
[Crusher's office]

CRUSHER: We shouldn't make any hasty decisions,
Jean-Luc. The transporter could've beamed them somewhere else. The
Romulan ship, another deck of the Enterprise. 
PICARD: We've already checked those possibilities. The initial findings
would seen to indicate that there was a radiation surge from the
Romulan engine core which disrupted the signal. They never
rematerialised. 
CRUSHER: We should check again. There might be something that we've
overlooked and 
PICARD: Beverly, we've done everything that we can. 
CRUSHER: You're right. I just hate making out death certificates. Does
Ensign Ro have any family? 
RO: Captain, I'm right here. 
PICARD: None that I know of, but I'll check with the Bajoran liaison
Office. 
RO: I'm not dead! 
CRUSHER: I'll have the official reports ready within the hour. 
RO: Captain, I don't know what's going on 
(Picard walks straight through Ro and out of the office) 
RO: Doctor. Doctor Crusher. Doctor Crusher, I'm right here. Damn it. 
(Ro's fist goes straight through the desk, so she tests it out on a
desk console. Then she looks at what Beverly is doing, updating her
personnel file to current status - deceased) 
[Romulan Engineering]

MIROK: We're ready, Commander. 
RIKER: Riker to Enterprise. Begin power transfer. 
(a beam comes from the Enterprise and the light come back on) 
MIROK: The power flow is consistent at four hundred kolems. No
fluctuations in frequency. The main power grid is online. 
PICARD [OC]: Picard to Riker. 
RIKER: Riker here. Power transfer appears stable at this end, Captain. 
PICARD [OC]: Good.

[Bridge]

PICARD: What is the status of the engine
replacement? 
RIKER [OC]: Engineering is modifying one of our subspace resonators to
act as a new engine core. It won't do more than warp two, but it'll get
them home. 
PICARD: Very well. 
DATA: Captain. The diagnostic of the transporter system shows an
anomalous energy fluctuation. I will need to inspect the imaging
scanner in transporter room three. 
PICARD: By all means. 
DATA: Captain? I have a personal favour to ask. I considered Commander
La Forge to be my best friend. I believe it is my responsibility to
plan and conduct the memorial service. May I have your permission to do
so? 
PICARD: Permission granted. Make whatever arrangements you think are
appropriate. 
DATA: Thank you, sir.

[Romulan Engineering]

(a Romulan confers with Guy Vardeman as Worf
enters) 
WORF: Commander, the (looks round) the Romulans want a computer. We
cannot give them access to Federation technology. That is an
unacceptable security risk. 
RIKER: What about a computer core from thirty or forty years ago? One
the Romulans are already familiar with. 
WORF: That would be satisfactory. 
RIKER: Check with the Enterprise, see what's available. Be sure your
concern are addressed before we install it. 
WORF: Aye, sir. Thank you.

