RO RIKER BROSSMER LAFORGE PICARD MIROK [on viewscreen] MCDOWELL PAREM CRUSHER DATA BROSSMER [OC] MAN
unusual woman rings quarters finished believes picks order wait

[Transporter room]

(Ro walks through the door first and dodges to the
side. She attacks the Romulan and knocks him down. Then she runs, and
the disrupter beam just misses her)

[Engineering]

BROSSMER [OC]: Brossmer to Commander Data. 
DATA: Data here. 
BROSSMER [OC]: I've just detected a large chroniton field on deck
seventeen. The field strength is three hundred percent above the others
we've found, sir. 
LAFORGE: Is that Ro? 
DATA: Acknowledged.

[Crew quarters]

(Ro and Parem run through the quarters of a woman
in a state of undress, as Data tracks their progress on his tricorder.
Then through a crewman doing press-ups and into a room where a man and
woman are having a romantic dinner. Parem shoots Ro in the leg. Data is
outside the door.) 
PAREM: Get up. Where is the science officer? 
(the doorbell rings, and the distraction enables Ro to turn the tables
on Parem. They fight.) 
MAN: I'll go. Commander? 
DATA: Excuse me for interrupting, Lieutenant. 
LAFORGE: Ro! 
DATA: I'm detecting a chroniton field in your room. May I scan the
area? 
(meanwhile, Geordi has piled into the fight and knocked Parem out
through the hull into space, where even an out of phase Romulan cannot
survive) 
MAN: Certainly. 
RO: Thanks. 
LAFORGE: Any time. 
[Bridge]

LAFORGE: There's still no indication that the
Romulans set up a muon wave in our dilithium chamber. 
RO: It's there, and when they go to warp 
MCDOWELL: Incoming message from the Romulan ship, Captain. 
PICARD: On screen. 
LAFORGE: Now what? 
MIROK [on viewscreen]: Installation of the new engine core has been
completed. We are ready to switch to internal power, Enterprise. 
PICARD: Understood. Disconnect the power-transfer beam. 
MIROK [on viewscreen]: We are now on internal power. Captain Picard,
please accept my sincere thanks on behalf the Romulan Empire. 
RO: Don't listen to him, Captain. 
PICARD: It was our pleasure, Mirok. And I hope that this example of
cooperation between our two peoples will not be an isolated incident. 
MIROK [on viewscreen]: As do I, Captain. 
(transmission ends) 
PICARD: Set a course for the Garadius system. Warp six. 
LAFORGE: No, Captain wait. 
RO: Don't do it, sir. 
BROSSMER: Captain. I'm still running the decontamination programme.
Mister Data believes we shouldn't engage the warp drive until I've
cleared all the chroniton fields from the ship. 
PICARD: Very well. Let me know when you finished your sweep. 
BROSSMER: Yes, sir. 
RO: If we can get to the locations that she's decontaminating, maybe
the anyon emissions would re-phase us enough for someone to see us. 
LAFORGE: Yeah, well the beam strength would have to be pretty strong in
order for us to be visible for more than a millisecond. Somebody's
going to have to be looking directly at us. 
RO: Then we're going to have to go somewhere with an awful lot of
people. 
(Riker enters) 
RIKER: It's time, sir. We should go. 
PICARD: You have the Bridge, Mister McDowell. I'll be at the service in
Ten Forward. 
LAFORGE: Ten Forward? Well, that's perfect. We'll create as many
chroniton fields in there as we can. Get them to flood that room with a
stronger beam.

[Turbolift]

PICARD: Deck ten. I've been thinking about the
first time I met Geordi La Forge. He was a young officer assigned to
pilot me on an inspection tour, and I made some off hand remark about
the shuttle's engine efficiency not being what it should. And the next
morning I found that he'd stayed up all night refitting the fusion
initiators. Well, I knew then that I wanted him with me on my next
command. Have you decided what you're going to say about Ensign Ro? 
RIKER: Yes, I have. It wasn't easy. 
PICARD: Situations like these are never easy, Number One. RO: Why? What
wasn't easy? What?

[Ten Forward]

(a party is in full swing, complete with jazz band,
balloons) 
RO: What is going on here? 
LAFORGE: It's our memorial service. 
RO: This? 
LAFORGE: Why not? 
RO: I don't believe this. They think we're dead and they're having a
party. 
LAFORGE: Yeah. It's perfect. Come on, let's get started. 
(Ro fires the disrupter at random targets around the room) 
PICARD: Well, this is unusual. 
RIKER: Yeah, I think I like it. 
(Riker picks up the trombone and joins in) 
RO: Now I suppose I'll never know what you were going to say about me. 
(and she fires the disrupter through his head) 
DATA: Do you think the others will think this service appropriate? 
CRUSHER: Look around you, Data. Everybody is sharing their memories of
Geordi and Ro, laughing and talking. What could be more appropriate
than that? 
DATA: I am glad you approve, Doctor. 
BROSSMER [OC]: Brossmer to Commander Data. 
DATA: Go ahead, Chief. 
BROSSMER [OC]: I'm sorry to disturb you, sir. We've cleared the
critical areas of chronitons but we've detected a new field forming in
Ten Forward that's stronger than any we've seen before. 
