RIKER MIROK CRUSHER WORF PICARD VAREL MCDOWELL RO DATA

[Romulan Engineering]

MIROK: Pressure in the containment chamber has
increased fifteen melakols in the last two minutes. 
RIKER: What can we do to stop the overload? 
MIROK: Most of the conduits were damaged during the explosion. I can't
even access the central computer. 
WORF: Commander. Emergency bulkheads have sealed this section off from
the rest of the ship. There is no way to gain access to the main Bridge
or control centres. 
RIKER: Survivors? 
WORF: Readings indicate at least seventy three Romulans are still
alive. 
VAREL: Seventy three. 
(an alarm sounds) 
MIROK: The pressure has jumped two hundred melakols! 
VAREL: I've lost control of the containment chamber. 
MIROK: It's going to implode. 
RIKER: We'll need to dump the entire engine core. Do you have an
auto-eject system? 
MIROK: Yes, but it's not functioning. I'll have to do it manually. 
RIKER: Mister Worf, you two seal the chamber. 
VAREL: Implosion will occur in one minute five seconds. 
RIKER: Enterprise, we need to jettison the entire engine core. You'll
need to extend the shields once it clears the hull. 
PICARD [OC]: Understood, Number One. We'll stand by for your signal. 
(Worf and Varel have got to the manual latches and undone them) 
WORF: We must get the doors closed. 
(but Worf can't move the debris jamming them open) 
WORF: Commander! 
RIKER: Time? 
VAREL: Thirty seconds. 
(the three men finally shift the girder and start to pull the doors
shut) 
MIROK: I'm ready, Commander. 
RIKER: Stay there! Eject the chamber on my order! 
DATA: Excuse me, sir. 
(Data takes over and pulls the doors shut) 
MIROK: Implosion in five seconds) 
RIKER: Now. 
(everything shakes as the core is ejected) 
RIKER: Enterprise, extend shields! 
(KaBOOM) 
RIKER: Well, we're still here. 
MIROK: Yes.

[Bridge]

RIKER [OC]: We'll have a complete power survey done
within the hour. We'll probably have to supply them with energy for
life support, and they'll need a new engine core to get home. 
PICARD: Understood, Commander. Keep us informed of your efforts. Picard
out. I'll be in Sickbay. 
MCDOWELL: Aye, sir.

[Corridor]

(Picard walks past Ro lying on the floor. She wakes
up) 
RO: Ensign Ro to the Bridge. This is Ensign Ro reporting in. I'm at
section twenty three baker, near Sickbay. (she wobbles) Sickbay. 
[Sickbay]

(the door doesn't open for her, but she gets in
when a man walks out) 
RO: Excuse me, I need some help. Excuse me? Excuse me, I need some
help. 
(but everyone ignores her) 
RO: Excuse me! I need some help! 
[Crusher's office]

CRUSHER: We shouldn't make any hasty decisions,
Jean-Luc. The transporter could've beamed them somewhere else. The
Romulan ship, another deck of the Enterprise. 
PICARD: We've already checked those possibilities. The initial findings
would seen to indicate that there was a radiation surge from the
Romulan engine core which disrupted the signal. They never
rematerialised. 
CRUSHER: We should check again. There might be something that we've
overlooked and 
PICARD: Beverly, we've done everything that we can. 
CRUSHER: You're right. I just hate making out death certificates. Does
Ensign Ro have any family? 
RO: Captain, I'm right here. 
PICARD: None that I know of, but I'll check with the Bajoran liaison
Office. 
RO: I'm not dead! 
CRUSHER: I'll have the official reports ready within the hour. 
RO: Captain, I don't know what's going on 
(Picard walks straight through Ro and out of the office) 
RO: Doctor. Doctor Crusher. Doctor Crusher, I'm right here. Damn it. 
(Ro's fist goes straight through the desk, so she tests it out on a
desk console. Then she looks at what Beverly is doing, updating her
personnel file to current status - deceased) 
[Romulan Engineering]

MIROK: We're ready, Commander. 
RIKER: Riker to Enterprise. Begin power transfer. 
(a beam comes from the Enterprise and the light come back on) 
MIROK: The power flow is consistent at four hundred kolems. No
fluctuations in frequency. The main power grid is online. 
PICARD [OC]: Picard to Riker. 
RIKER: Riker here. Power transfer appears stable at this end, Captain. 
PICARD [OC]: Good.

