MIROK LAFORGE WORF BROSSMER VAREL PAREM RO DATA

[Romulan Engineering]

(Geordi sticks his head inside a piece of
equipment) 
MIROK: I'm afraid I fail to see the point of this investigation,
Commander. 
DATA: Chroniton emissions may have been responsible for the accident
which claimed the lives of our officers. 
VAREL: A most regrettable event, of course. 
DATA: Was your cloaking device damaged in the explosion? 
MIROK: All of our systems were damaged, including the cloaking device. 
DATA: That explains the chroniton fields I am detecting in here now.
For your own safety, it is important to eliminate those emissions. 
VAREL: Our safety? 
DATA: There is no way to predict what will happen when the chronitons
interact with the new engine core. 
LAFORGE: I've never seen anything like this. There's something in here
that looks like a molecular phase inverter. 
RO: What's that? 
LAFORGE: It's supposed to change the structure of matter so it can pass
through normal matter and energy. Hang on a second. A few years back,
we got intelligence reports that the Klingons were working on trying to
combine a phase inverter and a cloaking
device. In theory, they believed that a phased ship could hide
anywhere, even inside a planet, and that conventional weapons would be
useless against it. 
RO: How far did they get in their research? 
LAFORGE: It never got out of the preliminary stages. There were several
accidents. The Romulans might be pursuing the same
technology, trying to combine an inverter and a cloaking device. And if
this is the prototype 
RO: Then that would explain the explosion and the chroniton fields. 
LAFORGE: And us. 
RO: You mean we're cloaked? 
LAFORGE: Not just cloaked, phased. Our entire molecular structure
altered so that we don't have any substance. 
RO: Then that would mean we're not dead. 
LAFORGE: Yes. It would also mean that there's probably a way to
de-phase us. 
DATA: The field emissions are particularly strong in this area. 
(the equipment Geordi was examining) 
MIROK: You can be assured that the emissions will be eliminated before
the engine core is replaced. 
WORF: Commander, may I speak with you? 
(Data moves away) 
VAREL: If they come back they're going to discover the interphase
generator. 
MIROK: Is their power transfer beam still at full intensity? 
VAREL: Yes. It will be until we're ready to switch to internal power. 
MIROK: We will set up a muon feedback wave inside the transfer beam.
The particles will accumulate in their dilithium chamber. When they go
to warp speed, their engines will explode. 
LAFORGE: We've got to get to the Enterprise and warn them. 
RO: How? 
LAFORGE: I don't know, but we have to find a way. Come on. 
(A Romulan who had been sitting in a chair gets up, walks through a
console and follows them. He gets to the Enterprise on a shuttle, too)

[Engineering]

RO: The muon feedback wave's not showing up on any
of the engine displays. 
LAFORGE: The Romulans must be hiding it in a sensor return signal.
Unless someone runs a level three diagnostic, they'd never detect it.
There must be a way to warn them before the ship goes to warp. 
DATA: This is puzzling. Three more chroniton fields have formed aboard
the Enterprise in the last hour. 
LAFORGE: There's no reason why the interphase device would be producing
new fields aboard this ship. 
DATA: We should begin decontamination immediately. Run an internal
sensor sweep for locations of all chroniton fields on the Enterprise. 
BROSSMER: Aye, sir. The following areas are showing contamination.
Sickbay, Transporter room three, main Bridge, Captain's Ready room,
shuttlebay two, and main Engineering. 
LAFORGE: Ro, look at this. 
DATA: I do not understand how these new fields have formed. No
transporter beam has been active in any of those areas. I cannot see
that they have anything in common. 
LAFORGE: Oh, yes they do. 
DATA: In fact, they seem to be appearing at random. 
LAFORGE: No, they're not. We were in every one of those locations.
Somehow we're leaving chroniton footprints behind us. 
DATA: Can you narrow the focus of the scan to pinpoint the locations? 
BROSSMER: Not with the internal sensors, Commander. 
DATA: Go to science station two on the main Bridge. Use a lateral
sensor array to get a more precise reading. I will modify an anyon
emitter to eliminate the fields once they've been isolated. 
LAFORGE: Why don't you go with her and see what the lateral sensors
turn up. I'll stay here with Data. 
RO: Right. 
(Data is scanning with a tricorder, then spraying) 
LAFORGE: Well that's interesting. You're reading chroniton readings in
here, but not from me? There's a field in this wall? Why? Data, I came
through this wall. I walked right through it when I came in here. When
the phased matter in my body passed through the wall, it must've
disrupted the wall's molecular structure producing a chroniton field.
Data, I'm right here that's me you're reading. Watch. 
(Geordi walks through the 'pool table' and Data detects the field) 
LAFORGE: Come on, it's me. You see?

[Bridge]

(Ro follows Brossmer onto the Bridge, and discovers
the Romulan) 
PAREM: Do not move. Yes, I can see you. 
RO: Who are you? 
PAREM: Where is the scientific officer? The one like us. The one who
came with you to our ship. He spoke of a plan to return to normal. Yes,
this disruptor works. I was wearing it when I was changed. Now, where
is he?

[Engineering]

(Geordi is persisting in putting new fields in the
pool table) 
LAFORGE: Data, stop being so rational. Try using your imagination once
in a while. These aren't just random patterns, it's me! 
(Data catches Geordi's hand with his spray) 
LAFORGE: Hey, watch where you point that thing. Wait a minute, Data, I
think you did something here . It's not so easy to push through any
more. The molecules in my hand must have been partially de-phased by
the anyon beam. Data, if a low level beam can bring my hand part of the
way back, maybe a high level beam can bring me all of the way back.
I'll just have to get you to turn up the beam intensity so that. Hey,
wait a minute, don't stop now. No, no, no. Data, don't give up on it.
It works, I was just creating more fields. Your method is fine. You
just need to turn up the intensity, Data.

[Corridor]

(The Romulan has Ro at gunpoint)
RO: He's in here.

[Transporter room]

(Ro walks through the door first and dodges to the
side. She attacks the Romulan and knocks him down. Then she runs, and
the disrupter beam just misses her)

