PICARD [OC] RIKER CRUSHER LAFORGE WORF PICARD BROSSMER MIROK RIKER [OC] RO DATA
affected hour considered familiar diagnostic lives glad desk talk

[Crusher's office]

CRUSHER: We shouldn't make any hasty decisions,
Jean-Luc. The transporter could've beamed them somewhere else. The
Romulan ship, another deck of the Enterprise. 
PICARD: We've already checked those possibilities. The initial findings
would seen to indicate that there was a radiation surge from the
Romulan engine core which disrupted the signal. They never
rematerialised. 
CRUSHER: We should check again. There might be something that we've
overlooked and 
PICARD: Beverly, we've done everything that we can. 
CRUSHER: You're right. I just hate making out death certificates. Does
Ensign Ro have any family? 
RO: Captain, I'm right here. 
PICARD: None that I know of, but I'll check with the Bajoran liaison
Office. 
RO: I'm not dead! 
CRUSHER: I'll have the official reports ready within the hour. 
RO: Captain, I don't know what's going on 
(Picard walks straight through Ro and out of the office) 
RO: Doctor. Doctor Crusher. Doctor Crusher, I'm right here. Damn it. 
(Ro's fist goes straight through the desk, so she tests it out on a
desk console. Then she looks at what Beverly is doing, updating her
personnel file to current status - deceased) 
[Romulan Engineering]

MIROK: We're ready, Commander. 
RIKER: Riker to Enterprise. Begin power transfer. 
(a beam comes from the Enterprise and the light come back on) 
MIROK: The power flow is consistent at four hundred kolems. No
fluctuations in frequency. The main power grid is online. 
PICARD [OC]: Picard to Riker. 
RIKER: Riker here. Power transfer appears stable at this end, Captain. 
PICARD [OC]: Good.

[Bridge]

PICARD: What is the status of the engine
replacement? 
RIKER [OC]: Engineering is modifying one of our subspace resonators to
act as a new engine core. It won't do more than warp two, but it'll get
them home. 
PICARD: Very well. 
DATA: Captain. The diagnostic of the transporter system shows an
anomalous energy fluctuation. I will need to inspect the imaging
scanner in transporter room three. 
PICARD: By all means. 
DATA: Captain? I have a personal favour to ask. I considered Commander
La Forge to be my best friend. I believe it is my responsibility to
plan and conduct the memorial service. May I have your permission to do
so? 
PICARD: Permission granted. Make whatever arrangements you think are
appropriate. 
DATA: Thank you, sir.

[Romulan Engineering]

(a Romulan confers with Guy Vardeman as Worf
enters) 
WORF: Commander, the (looks round) the Romulans want a computer. We
cannot give them access to Federation technology. That is an
unacceptable security risk. 
RIKER: What about a computer core from thirty or forty years ago? One
the Romulans are already familiar with. 
WORF: That would be satisfactory. 
RIKER: Check with the Enterprise, see what's available. Be sure your
concern are addressed before we install it. 
WORF: Aye, sir. Thank you.

[Engineering]

(Geordi is failing to attract anyone's attention) 
RO: La Forge? 
LAFORGE: Ro. Boy, am I glad to see you. And I'm really glad that you
can see me. It's like I'm here, but I'm not here. 
RO: No one can see me either. 
LAFORGE: I can't figure it out. One minute we were transporting from
the Romulan vessel, and the next I wake up in the arboretum with a
splitting headache. Can you pass through things like bulkheads? 
RO: Tables, people, yeah. 
(they touch hands) 
LAFORGE: Well, we're solid enough to each other. 
RO: It's not what you expected, is it. 
LAFORGE: What do you mean? 
RO: This. Death. 
LAFORGE: What? 
RO: We're dead, Geordi. 
LAFORGE: Is that some kind of a joke? 
RO: Our patterns were lost in a transporter malfunction. We never
rematerialised after leaving the Romulan ship. 
LAFORGE: Wait a minute. What are you saying, that we're some sort of
spirits? 
RO: Spirits, souls. My people used to call them borhyas. Whatever term
you want to use, we're it. 
LAFORGE: But my uniform, my visor. Are you saying I'm some blind ghost
with clothes? 
RO: I don't have all the answers. I've never been dead before. 
LAFORGE: We are not dead. 
RO: According to Doctor Crusher, we died in a transporter malfunction
at fourteen thirty hours.
Geordi, I saw her make out the death certificates. We need to make
peace with our former lives. That's what I was taught. We have to say
goodbye to the people who were in our lives. 
LAFORGE: No. You may be ready for the afterlife, but I'm not. 
RO: I don't see that we have much of a choice. When I was growing up, I
never gave much thought to all the talk about borhyas. I figured that
it was just superstition passed on to children. 
LAFORGE: Fine. You go make peace with yourself, all right? I'm going to
transporter room three. I'm going to figure a way out of this
situation.

[Transporter room]

BROSSMER: I didn't have any warning that something
would go wrong, sir. Suddenly their patterns just weren't there. 
DATA: I believe the cause of the accident may be related to the
explosion on the Romulan ship. 
LAFORGE: Really? 
BROSSMER: But that happened before we even arrived. 
DATA: In all likelihood, the explosion damaged the Romulan cloaking
device, causing it to discharge chroniton particles.
I am detecting a chroniton field in here. 
LAFORGE: A chroniton field? 
BROSSMER: If the particles were produced on the Romulan ship, why are
you detecting them here? 
LAFORGE: The transporter beam. 
DATA: I suspect they travelled through the transporter beam. That may
have been the cause of Geordi and Ro's death.
I will go to the Romulan ship. Perhaps I can discover the source of the
emissions. 
BROSSMER: Commander, are these chronitons dangerous? 
DATA: They pose no danger to humans. However, some of the ship's
systems may be affected by prolonged exposure. When I return I will
devise a method to eradicate them. 
LAFORGE: La Forge to Ensign Ro. (then realises the comm. system doesn't
work for them)

