LAFORGE PAREM RO DATA BROSSMER [OC] MAN
bridge don ve level percent quarters lieutenant spray bring

[Bridge]

(Ro follows Brossmer onto the Bridge, and discovers
the Romulan) 
PAREM: Do not move. Yes, I can see you. 
RO: Who are you? 
PAREM: Where is the scientific officer? The one like us. The one who
came with you to our ship. He spoke of a plan to return to normal. Yes,
this disruptor works. I was wearing it when I was changed. Now, where
is he?

[Engineering]

(Geordi is persisting in putting new fields in the
pool table) 
LAFORGE: Data, stop being so rational. Try using your imagination once
in a while. These aren't just random patterns, it's me! 
(Data catches Geordi's hand with his spray) 
LAFORGE: Hey, watch where you point that thing. Wait a minute, Data, I
think you did something here . It's not so easy to push through any
more. The molecules in my hand must have been partially de-phased by
the anyon beam. Data, if a low level beam can bring my hand part of the
way back, maybe a high level beam can bring me all of the way back.
I'll just have to get you to turn up the beam intensity so that. Hey,
wait a minute, don't stop now. No, no, no. Data, don't give up on it.
It works, I was just creating more fields. Your method is fine. You
just need to turn up the intensity, Data.

[Corridor]

(The Romulan has Ro at gunpoint)
RO: He's in here.

[Transporter room]

(Ro walks through the door first and dodges to the
side. She attacks the Romulan and knocks him down. Then she runs, and
the disrupter beam just misses her)

[Engineering]

BROSSMER [OC]: Brossmer to Commander Data. 
DATA: Data here. 
BROSSMER [OC]: I've just detected a large chroniton field on deck
seventeen. The field strength is three hundred percent above the others
we've found, sir. 
LAFORGE: Is that Ro? 
DATA: Acknowledged.

[Crew quarters]

(Ro and Parem run through the quarters of a woman
in a state of undress, as Data tracks their progress on his tricorder.
Then through a crewman doing press-ups and into a room where a man and
woman are having a romantic dinner. Parem shoots Ro in the leg. Data is
outside the door.) 
PAREM: Get up. Where is the science officer? 
(the doorbell rings, and the distraction enables Ro to turn the tables
on Parem. They fight.) 
MAN: I'll go. Commander? 
DATA: Excuse me for interrupting, Lieutenant. 
LAFORGE: Ro! 
DATA: I'm detecting a chroniton field in your room. May I scan the
area? 
(meanwhile, Geordi has piled into the fight and knocked Parem out
through the hull into space, where even an out of phase Romulan cannot
survive) 
MAN: Certainly. 
RO: Thanks. 
LAFORGE: Any time. 
