ELINE [OC] RIKER LAFORGE WORF PICARD ELINE CRUSHER DATA MAN
collecting pull life somebody drop able willing know way

[Bridge]

RIKER: Geordi, any progress identifying the probe? 
LAFORGE: Maybe. I've picked up some residue on the probe's shell. I
think it came from the propulsion system. Looks like it used a solid
propellant as fuel. 
RIKER: Solid propellant? 
LAFORGE: Sensors read this stuff as crystalline emiristol. It produces
a radioactive trail that ought to be traceable. 
RIKER: Then we should be able to send out a probe of our own, trace it
back to the origin. 
LAFORGE: I'll get right on it. 
DATA: Commander, I have been analysing the nucleonic beam. I believe it
would be possible to reflect the particles back toward the probe in a
way that would disrupt the signal. 
RIKER: Doctor? 
CRUSHER: I simply don't know the risk of shutting down the beam. 
RIKER: I'm not willing to let this thing keep drilling into him. 
CRUSHER: If somebody gets stabbed, you don't necessarily pull the knife
out right away. It might do more harm than leaving it there. 
WORF: The Captain is under attack. We must act. 
RIKER: I'm inclined to agree. Doctor, monitor him closely. Mister Data,
prepare to disrupt the beam. We're going to try to cut this cord.

[Courtyard]

(a young girl is playing in the sunshine as Picard
plays his flute indoors) 
ELINE [OC]: Meribor.

[Living room]

(the little girl runs to Eline, who is holding a
baby) 
ELINE: Meribor, this is your brother's ceremony. Don't fidget now. 
PICARD: We name this child for a dear friend who died a year ago. But
now his memory will live on in his namesake. 
ELINE: We name you Batai, in his honour. 
PICARD: And he's starting out in the warmth of friends. Thank you.
Please, help yourselves to something to eat. 
MAN: Congratulations, Kamin. 
PICARD: Thank you. 
ELINE: It seems like only yesterday we had Meribor's naming ceremony.
Go on. 
PICARD: I remember. I was so nervous I was afraid that I would drop
her. Now look at the little lady. 
ELINE: She's no lady. Tromping through the hills with you all day,
digging up those soil samples you insist upon collecting. No, she's her
father's daughter. 
PICARD: I would have believed I didn't need children to complete my
life. Now I couldn't imagine life without them. 
ELINE: Kamin, what is it? 
(Picard collapses) 
ELINE: Get the doctor. Hurry!

