RIKER WORF PICARD ELINE ENSIGN ADMINISTRATOR CRUSHER DATA BATAI
real fulfilling evidence start moving supper true reclaim flourishing

[Bridge]

RIKER: Riker to Sickbay. The Captain's hurt. 
(Beverly is scanning Picard) 
CRUSHER: Pulse and blood pressure are normal I'm getting hyperactive
fibrogenic activity. This is odd. 
RIKER: What is it? 
CRUSHER: There's no evidence of any injury or trauma. Vital signs are
normal, but neurotransmitter production is off the scale. What's going
on? 
RIKER: That probe is doing something to him. Anything yet, Data? 
DATA: No, sir. The particle emission is most unusual. I am unable to
block it. 
WORF: We should destroy the probe. Phasers are armed and ready. 
CRUSHER: I don't think that's wise. Not until we know exactly what it's
doing to him. 
RIKER: Agreed. Stand down phasers, Mister Worf. In the meantime, take
us out of range. Ensign. Thrusters only, one hundred kph nice and easy 
ENSIGN: Aye, sir. 
RIKER: Data? 
DATA: The probe is moving with us, sir, holding relative position. 
CRUSHER: It's connected itself to him, like a tether.

[Courtyard]

ELINE: You've been dreaming of that starship of
yours again, haven't you? 
PICARD: I'm just charting progress of the course of the sun. It might
give a clue to the cause of this drought. 
ELINE: I think you're still trying to figure out where you are. Where
that ship of yours is. How to get back to that life. 
PICARD: The memory is five years old now, but it's still inside me. 
ELINE: Was your life there so much better than this? So much more
gratifying, so much more fulfilling, that you cling to it with such
stubbornness? 
PICARD: Eline. 
ELINE: It must have been extraordinary. But never in all of the stories
you've told me have you mentioned anyone who loved you as I do. 
PICARD: It was real. It was as real as this is. And you can't expect me
to forget a lifetime spent there. 
ELINE: Yes, I can. I've been patient, Kamin. For five years I've shared
you with that other life. I've listened, I've tried to understand, and
I have waited. When do I get you back? 
PICARD: I know. I know. It has been hard on you. 
ELINE: When will you let go? When will you start living this life? When
will we start a family? 
BATAI: Kamin, Eline, good morning. 
PICARD: Good morning, Batai. 
BATAI: Are you ready? The Administrator's already arrived. 
PICARD: Yes. Will you come along? 
ELINE: No, thank you. You do very well on your own. 
BATAI: She always was strong-minded, even when she was a child. 
PICARD: It's not her fault. These past few years have been very
difficult for her. 
BATAI: And for you, I think.

[Town square]

ADMINISTRATOR: There you are, Batai. Perhaps you
can explain to me, when crops are dying all over, how this tree is
flourishing? 
BATAI: This tree is our symbol, our affirmation of life. Everyone in
this town gives part of their water rations to keep it alive. We've
learned, Administrator, that hope is a powerful weapon against
anything. Even drought. 
ADMINISTRATOR: A good point. Perhaps I shall recommend a symbolic tree
in each of my communities. Now. What business do we have today? 
BATAI: We need help if we're to increase the water supply. We think
there are ways to reclaim some of our water. 
ADMINISTRATOR: Batai, you're being a bit of an alarmist. True, we are
in a drought, but water rationing has produced a sizeable savings. 
PICARD: If the weather pattern doesn't change, rationing will not be
enough. We'll run out of water. 
ADMINISTRATOR: Who is this? 
BATAI: Kamin, sir. 
ADMINISTRATOR: Kamin. Do I know you? 
PICARD: No. I haven't spoken to you before. 
ADMINISTRATOR: Well, Kamin, I'm open to all the people of this town.
I'm delighted to hear what you have to say. 
PICARD: I suggest that we build atmospheric condensers which could
extract water from the air. 
ADMINISTRATOR: I don't mean to quash your very creative ideas but
building atmospheric condensers would be a monumental undertaking. We
could not hope to sustain such a project. 
PICARD: Each community would be responsible for its own. Condensers
could make the difference between watering our crops or watching them
die. 
ADMINISTRATOR: Well, I'll be glad to pass along your idea. You'll see
that this kind of participatory government works for everyone. Be well,
Batai. I shall see you next month. Good to meet you, Kanin. 
BATAI: Go carefully, Administrator. 
(The Administrator leaves) 
BATAI: That went very well. I think he was impressed with you. 
PICARD: But there'll be no atmospheric condensers. 
BATAI: These things take time, but it will happen. I'm sure of it. 
PICARD: Come and have supper tonight, my friend. I'll make some
vegetable stew. Let's talk about building our own condenser. 
BATAI: Kamin. Hearing you talk to the Administrator, I realised that
for the first time in years, you were speaking as though you were truly
a member of the community. It was good to hear that again.

