RIKER WORF PICARD ELINE ENSIGN design as probe that the Enterprise encountered) PICARD CRUSHER DATA BATAI
real help stubbornness ensign start say systems day block

[Living room]

(its late when the doorbell chimes) 
ELINE: Thank goodness. I've had people out trying to find you
everywhere. Why did you worry us like that? Are you hungry? 
PICARD: Hungry, thirsty, exhausted. I suppose that proves this is not a
dream, doesn't it? 
ELINE: You think this, your life, is a dream? 
PICARD: This is not my life. I know that much. 
ELINE: I've kept something hot for you. Where did you go? 
PICARD: I walked. For hours. 
ELINE: And you're just out of bed. 
(she hands him a plate of soup) 
PICARD: It's delicious. 
ELINE: You always say that. 
PICARD: Would you try to answer some questions for me, no matter how
strange they may seem to you? 
ELINE: Of course. 
PICARD: Are there other planets in this star system? Do you visit other
systems? All right. Do you have a communication system here? How do you
send messages to other communities, to other places? 
ELINE: The usual way, by voice-transit conductor. Do you want to send a
message? 
PICARD: Yes. When can that be arranged? 
ELINE: Tomorrow. Don't you want to ask about us? 
PICARD: Of course. Anything you can tell me will be helpful. We're, er,
um, married? 
ELINE: Three years ago. The happiest day of my life was the day we got
married. 
PICARD: And what do I do here in Ressik? 
ELINE: You're the best iron weaver in the community. At least I think
so. You prefer playing the flute, of course. 
PICARD: The flute? 
ELINE: Yes. 
(she fetches him a penny whistle decorated with a tassel) 
PICARD: And when did I learn to play it? 
ELINE: I'm afraid you never did, dear, but you keep trying. 
(he gives it a trial blow) 
PICARD: I see what you mean. Well, thank you for the soup. Thank you
for your help. Tomorrow, will you help me send a message? 
ELINE: Of course. Will you come to bed? 
PICARD: Oh, I'll sleep here. 
ELINE: Kamin, please come with me. 
PICARD: I've been sick. I'll be tossing and turning. It wouldn't be
fair to you. 
ELINE: Let me be the judge of that. 
(as she leans forward he sees a pendant on a necklace - it is the same
design as probe that the Enterprise encountered) PICARD: Where did you
get this? 
ELINE: Kamin, this is the first gift you ever gave me.

[Bridge]

RIKER: Riker to Sickbay. The Captain's hurt. 
(Beverly is scanning Picard) 
CRUSHER: Pulse and blood pressure are normal I'm getting hyperactive
fibrogenic activity. This is odd. 
RIKER: What is it? 
CRUSHER: There's no evidence of any injury or trauma. Vital signs are
normal, but neurotransmitter production is off the scale. What's going
on? 
RIKER: That probe is doing something to him. Anything yet, Data? 
DATA: No, sir. The particle emission is most unusual. I am unable to
block it. 
WORF: We should destroy the probe. Phasers are armed and ready. 
CRUSHER: I don't think that's wise. Not until we know exactly what it's
doing to him. 
RIKER: Agreed. Stand down phasers, Mister Worf. In the meantime, take
us out of range. Ensign. Thrusters only, one hundred kph nice and easy 
ENSIGN: Aye, sir. 
RIKER: Data? 
DATA: The probe is moving with us, sir, holding relative position. 
CRUSHER: It's connected itself to him, like a tether.

[Courtyard]

ELINE: You've been dreaming of that starship of
yours again, haven't you? 
PICARD: I'm just charting progress of the course of the sun. It might
give a clue to the cause of this drought. 
ELINE: I think you're still trying to figure out where you are. Where
that ship of yours is. How to get back to that life. 
PICARD: The memory is five years old now, but it's still inside me. 
ELINE: Was your life there so much better than this? So much more
gratifying, so much more fulfilling, that you cling to it with such
stubbornness? 
PICARD: Eline. 
ELINE: It must have been extraordinary. But never in all of the stories
you've told me have you mentioned anyone who loved you as I do. 
PICARD: It was real. It was as real as this is. And you can't expect me
to forget a lifetime spent there. 
ELINE: Yes, I can. I've been patient, Kamin. For five years I've shared
you with that other life. I've listened, I've tried to understand, and
I have waited. When do I get you back? 
PICARD: I know. I know. It has been hard on you. 
ELINE: When will you let go? When will you start living this life? When
will we start a family? 
BATAI: Kamin, Eline, good morning. 
PICARD: Good morning, Batai. 
BATAI: Are you ready? The Administrator's already arrived. 
PICARD: Yes. Will you come along? 
ELINE: No, thank you. You do very well on your own. 
BATAI: She always was strong-minded, even when she was a child. 
PICARD: It's not her fault. These past few years have been very
difficult for her. 
BATAI: And for you, I think.

