TROI DOORMAN LAFORGE WORF PICARD RIKER GUINAN BELLBOY CLEMENS CRUSHER DATA

[Observation lounge]

RIKER: I'm not willing to accept that he's dead and
just leave it at that. 
PICARD: We cannot make Mister Data our priority. 
RIKER: What is more important than Data? 
TROI: Look at what we have so far. Evidence that these aliens have been
travelling back in time to Earth. 
CRUSHER: What if they're trying to undermine our history for some
reason. 
WORF: Some kind of guerilla war? 
PICARD: We must assume that there is a threat, if not to us then to
19th century Earth. We have to determine what that threat may be.
Mister La Forge, we have to find some way to communicate with these
life forms. 
LAFORGE: It's not going to be easy to reproduce what Data did. We can
create a contained subspace field, but we'd need an extraordinarily
sensitive phase discriminator to get that point zero zero four
variance. 
PICARD: Can you build one? 
LAFORGE: It won't be as good as Data's. 
RIKER: Will it be good enough? 
LAFORGE: I don't know. I can try. It's going to take some time though. 
PICARD: I don't want anyone else going in alone. 
LAFORGE: I can probably create a large enough subspace field to
encompass everyone. But adjusting the phase inside the field, that's
going to be the hard part. 
PICARD: Make it so. 
RIKER: We have to assume one thing, sir. Wherever Data may be, he's
doing the same thing we are, which is trying to get to the bottom of
this. He may have a better idea about what's going on than we do, so it
might be in the best interests of this mission to find him. 
PICARD: Perhaps in the course of this investigation, we will. I hope
so. 
WORF: If we find Commander Data, it may be our fate to die with him in
the past. If our remains are in that cavern, they would have turned to
dust long ago.

[Ten Forward]

(Guinan is concocting a drink, sprinkling stuff in
and stirring carefully)
PICARD: I'm afraid to interrupt. 
GUINAN: Captain, you didn't have to come all the way down here. I
would've been more than happy to come up to you. 
PICARD: And miss all this? I haven't seen such a complex operation
since the Academy lab final in exochemistry. 
GUINAN: It's a Tzartak aperitif. It's very, very touchy. The trick is
to change the evaporation point of the main ingredient. You want the
temperature where the liquid goes to vapour to be a half a degree below
the body temperature of the customer.
That way, when the liquid touches the tongue, it evaporates, and the
flavour is carried entirely by the vapour. A few molecules off, the
vapour point crashes, and poof! It's all gone. All of it. 
PICARD: What is it you wanted to see me about? 
GUINAN: I hear you're sending an away team down to the surface. Are you
going? 
PICARD: Well, now, this is rather unusual for you to be curious about
an away mission. 
GUINAN: Maybe it's an unusual away mission. 
PICARD: If you have something to say, I'm listening. 
GUINAN: Starfleet captains don't usually accompany away teams. 
PICARD: It's general policy. 
GUINAN: This time, you have to. 
PICARD: Why? 
GUINAN: You just do. Do you remember the first time we met? 
PICARD: Of course. 
GUINAN: Don't be so sure. I just mean, if you don't go on this mission,
(the aperitif
evaporates) we'll never meet.

[Data's hotel room] 
(in a sight reminiscent of  City on the Edge of Forever,
Data has built a Contraption. The Bellboy staggers in with an anvil) 
BELLBOY: Sorry it took so long, Mister Data. 
DATA: Apology is not necessary. 
(Data picks up the anvil with one hand, then realises what he's done
wrong and drops it) 
DATA: Ow. 
BELLBOY: Are you all right? 
DATA: I believe I have overexerted myself. 
BELLBOY: Yeah, I'll say. Did you get it working? 
DATA: Yes. 
BELLBOY: Whatever it is. 
DATA: This is for your trouble. 
BELLBOY: What are you going to do with the anvil? 
DATA: I require a low intensity magnetic field core. I believe the iron
mass of the anvil will provide that. 
BELLBOY: What's it going to be when it's finished? 
DATA: What do you think it is going to be? 
BELLBOY: If I were to guess, maybe a new kind of motor for one of those
horseless carriages. 
DATA: That is a good guess. 
BELLBOY: Hot damn. You really think there's money in those things? 
DATA: Perhaps. 
BELLBOY: Isn't that what makes America great? 
DATA: To what are you referring? 
BELLBOY: Well, a man rides into town in his pajamas, wins a grub stake
at a poker table, turns it into a horseless carriage and makes a
million bucks. That's America. 
DATA: I believe I have given you an erroneous impression. 
BELLBOY: You know, some day my ship's going to come in. 
DATA: You have a ship? 
BELLBOY: Oh yeah, and it's full of gold too. I'm just biding my time
til it gets here, raising a stake any way I can. I've been a newsie,
cut fish at a cannery. Heck, I've even been an oyster pirate. 
DATA: You have had a considerable spectrum of occupations. 
BELLBOY: Yeah, well, you can't stay in one place too long. I'm always
looking for the angle, you know. Say, maybe you and I could go into
business together, selling your horseless carriage and all. You invent
them, I sell them. I can sell anybody anything. What do you say? 
DATA: I believe your plan is a bit premature. 
BELLBOY: Keep it in mind, though. I better get back. Oh, I forgot. I
got you something at the bakery on Third. 
(puts down a newspaper with a squashed something in it) 
DATA: Thank you, Jack. 
BELLBOY: Oh, no, no, no. It's on me, partner. 
(in the paper is a picture of a woman exactly like our Guinan, over the
strapline 'Literary Reception Announced')

[Ballroom]

CLEMENS: The eminent scientist Alfred Russell
Wallace has revived the theory that Earth is at the centre of the
stellar universe. This distinguished natural philosopher has reaffirmed
our planet as the only habitable globe in the heavens. A world,
furthermore, constructed for the sole benefit of man. He's got a lot of
folks excited about the notion. 
GUINAN: My dear Mister Clemens, why do I think you're not one of them? 
CLEMENS: Your suspicions, Madam Guinan, are undoubtedly based upon your
keen observational skills. Now, if you'll permit me, I'll continue my
character assassination unimpeded. 
GUINAN: My dear Mister Clemens, please do. Please do. 
CLEMENS: According to our best geologic estimate, the Earth is
approximately one hundred million years of age. Perhaps it is less,
perhaps more. 
GUINAN: Perhaps a great deal more. 
CLEMENS: Indeed. But regardless, it is ancient in the extreme. Now,
geology also tells us that man himself has existed for but a
microscopic fraction of those years. Curious, isn't it, that the world
got by for such a great long while with no humans around to fill up
space? I suppose Mister Wallace and his supporters would say that the
Earth needed all that time to prepare itself for our illustrious
arrival. Why, the oyster alone probably required fifteen million years
to get it to come out just right. 
GUINAN: But if the Earth is not alone, and there are millions of
inhabited planets in the heavens. 
CLEMENS: Quite my point. Man becomes a trivial creation, does he not?
Lost in the vastness of the cosmic prairie, adrift on the deep ocean of
time. A single one among countless others. 
GUINAN: Someone may argue that a diamond is still a diamond, even if it
is one amongst millions. It still shines as brightly. 
CLEMENS: Someone might say that, dear lady, if someone thought that the
human race was akin to a precious jewel. But this increasingly
hypothetical someone would not be me. 
[Entrance hall]

DOORMAN: Good afternoon, sir. 
DATA: Good afternoon. I would like to speak to Guinan. 
DOORMAN: And you are? 
DATA: Data. 
DOORMAN: Mister Data. Could it be under another name? 
DATA: No. 
DOORMAN: I can't seem to find your name on the guest list, sir. 
DATA: I am a personal friend. 
DOORMAN: Madam Guinan has discovered many personal friends since the
newspaper announcement, but if your name is not on the guest list,
there's nothing I can do. 
DATA: It is urgent that I speak to her. 
DOORMAN: Sir, unless you leave this house immediately, I will send for
the police. 
DATA: That is an excellent idea. I will wait for them in there. 
(Data does a neat side shuffle and gets through)
DOORMAN: Sir, please, you can't go in there. 
[Ballroom]

DATA: Guinan! Excuse me. I must speak to you
immediately. 
DOORMAN: Forgive me, madam. He just barged right in. 
DATA: I am sorry for the disruption, but he would not believe me when I
told him we were friends. 
GUINAN: Do I know you, Mister? 
DATA: Data. Yes. We were on a ship together. 
GUINAN: I do so much travelling. What ship would that be? 
DATA: The Enterprise. 
GUINAN: Is that a clipper ship? 
DATA: It is a starship. 
CLEMENS: A starship? What registry would that be? 
GUINAN: Of course! Mister Data. Excuse us. We have so much to catch up
on. Excuse us. How are you? 
