TROI WORF BEGGAR PICARD LAFORGE SEAMAN NATIVE GUINAN BELLBOY RIKER CRUSHER DATA GAMBLER MAN
liquid wholesale alley zero threat dressed vapour boat physical

[Street]

(Data wakes up on a cobbled street in front of the
No 5 Fire House. A horse-drawn carriage goes by. Data walks off, trying
to get information from passers-by.) 
DATA: Excuse me. Pardon me. I am searching for two individuals with an
ophidian. A snake. 
MAN: Frenchman. 
(He and his companion laugh and walk on. Data finds a discarded copy of
the San Francisco Register, Sunday August 13, 1893, proclaiming a
cholera outbreak) 
BEGGAR: Could you help out a Forty Niner? I fell down a shaft. I got
blown up in a tunnel. 
DATA: That is unfortunate. 
BEGGAR: It is most unfortunate. I require large amounts of whiskey as a
linament. 
DATA: I am sorry, but I have no whiskey to give you. 
BEGGAR: I'll take a dime. 
DATA: I am sorry, but I have no form of legal tender. 
BEGGAR: Well, we're in the same boat, huh? Well, this is my street.
You'll have to go find one of your own. 
DATA: I would be happy to do so, but I am presently in need of
information. 
BEGGAR: Stockbrokers are cheap as hell. Don't even bother to ask. Your
best handout is from a young fella with his lady. You give him a chance
to show her he's generous. Steer clear of sailors. Most likely you'll
get a fist across the jaw for your trouble. 
DATA: Thank you for your advice, but I'm trying to find two individuals
with a snake. 
BEGGAR: A snake? You're an odd fellow, aren't you? But just don't be
too particular where you get your funds from. 
DATA: You are in need of medical attention. I will get a doctor. 
BEGGAR: No, no, no, it's too late for that. (goes after another
passer-by) Could you help out a Forty Niner? 
(outside the Hotel Brian) 
BELLBOY: (receiving a tip) Thanks. 
(he goes to a man standing nearby)
BELLBOY: Hey, put it on Gentleman Jim. Knockout in the fifth. 
MAN: All right. 
DATA: Sir, I need temporary lodging. 
BELLBOY: Looks like the missus booted you out in the middle of the
night. 
DATA: I understand the source of your misperception. However, this is
not sleepware and I do not have a missus. 
BELLBOY: Well. 
DATA: I am a Frenchman. 
BELLBOY: Oh. Well, everybody's from somewhere. That doesn't matter at
this hotel. It's six bits a day or four dollars a week. 
DATA: I have no money. 
BELLBOY: Well, now, that matters. 
DATA: But I am capable of performing significant tasks both mental and
physical. Perhaps your hotel would offer me a job. 
BELLBOY: Geez, I don't know. We're pretty happy with the maid we've
got. Cook's decent. Dishwasher's drunk all day, but at least he gets
here on time. And there's me. I do everything else. Sorry. (a man comes
out) Lady Luck not with ya, tonight, Mister Lane? Poor fella. Hasn't
filled a straight in five weeks. 
DATA: Poker? 

[Poker room]

(Data enters the smoke-filled room. Four men sit
around the table. The gambler character is played by Marc Alaimo.) 
GAMBLER: Fold. 
MAN: Me too. 
SEAMAN: Go to blazes. (and folds) 
GAMBLER: A poker face carved in marble. 
DATA: Excuse me, gentlemen. 
SEAMAN: What in hell do you want? 
DATA: I would like to join the game. 
NATIVE: Pale face. 
SEAMAN: I don't like Easterners, personally. 
DATA: I am a Frenchman. 
GAMBLER: Ah. Mes parents sont originaires de Bourgonais. Je suis ne a
la New Orleans. 
DATA: Alors, nous sommes presque frres. Je suis heureux de vous
connaitre. 
GAMBLER: Please, sir. 
(Data sits between the man and the seaman) 
GAMBLER: The game is poker. The deal is yours. The ante is four bits. 
(Data puts his comm. badge on the table) 
GAMBLER: Family heirloom? 
DATA: In a manner of speaking. It is a crystalline composite of
silicon, beryllium, Carbon seventy, and 
SEAMAN: Gold. 
DATA: Gold. 
GAMBLER: I'll give you three bucks for it. 
DATA: I accept. (and deals)

[Data's hotel room]

(Data has acquired the Native's bowler hat with
feather, and the gambler's fancy waistcoat) 
BELLBOY: Did you see the looks on their faces? I did everything I could
not to laugh. 
DATA: To whom are you referring? 
BELLBOY: Frederick La Rouque and Joe Falling Hawk. Those guys are card
sharks. Oh sure, they play easy at first not to scare off the marks,
but you give them a little time, they'll bleed a man dry. Especially an
out-of-towner like yourself.. 
DATA: What was the source of your jocular reaction? What was it you
found humorous? 
BELLBOY: Don't you see? They had you pegged for a sap. The clothes you
got on, the way you talk, it's like you were born yesterday. You sure
fooled them, though. 
DATA: It was not my intention to deceive. 
BELLBOY: Have it your way. This is the place. Breakfast is six to
eight. Checkout's at noon when you're ready to leave. 
(hands over the key and holds out his hand) 
DATA: Thank you. (shakes his hand) It has been a pleasure. 
(the Bellboy coughs) 
DATA: It would be advisable to monitor that cough. I have read that
there is currently a cholera epidemic in San Francisco. 
BELLBOY: Never felt better. 
DATA: Of course. The gratuity. Thank you for your assistance. 
BELLBOY: A dollar? If there's anything you need. It can get lonely in
San Francisco. You might want some company. I can introduce you to
Lillian. 
DATA: I have no need for companionship. However I do require some
supplies. 
BELLBOY: Anything you need. I can get it for you wholesale. I can get
it for you less than wholesale if you don't ask me where it came from. 
(Data has been writing a list) 
BELLBOY: What do you need all this stuff for? 
DATA: I am an inventor. 
BELLBOY: No kidding. Well, this stuff's going to take a while. I'll
have to go clear cross town. And it's not
going to be cheap. 
(Data takes a wad of notes from his waistcoat pocket) 
DATA: Will this be enough? 
BELLBOY: More than enough. 
DATA: You may retain the surplus for yourself. 
BELLBOY: Keep the change? 
DATA: Exactly. 
BELLBOY: Done.

[Alley]

(The bellboy runs out the back of the hotel, past
an old man muttering to himself) 
BEGGAR: Help out a Forty Niner. Fell down a shaft. Forty Niner. Help
me. Help me out. 
(a tall slim elegantly dressed man with a snake's head cane and a tall
slim elegantly dressed woman with a case approach) 
BEGGAR: No. No. 
(a beam comes from the woman's case to the beggar, and he dies.) 
Captain's log, supplemental. Close range sensor
analysis has yielded no further trace of Commander Data. Despite the
emotional repercussions among my crew, I must move this mission
forward.

[Observation lounge]

RIKER: I'm not willing to accept that he's dead and
just leave it at that. 
PICARD: We cannot make Mister Data our priority. 
RIKER: What is more important than Data? 
TROI: Look at what we have so far. Evidence that these aliens have been
travelling back in time to Earth. 
CRUSHER: What if they're trying to undermine our history for some
reason. 
WORF: Some kind of guerilla war? 
PICARD: We must assume that there is a threat, if not to us then to
19th century Earth. We have to determine what that threat may be.
Mister La Forge, we have to find some way to communicate with these
life forms. 
LAFORGE: It's not going to be easy to reproduce what Data did. We can
create a contained subspace field, but we'd need an extraordinarily
sensitive phase discriminator to get that point zero zero four
variance. 
PICARD: Can you build one? 
LAFORGE: It won't be as good as Data's. 
RIKER: Will it be good enough? 
LAFORGE: I don't know. I can try. It's going to take some time though. 
PICARD: I don't want anyone else going in alone. 
LAFORGE: I can probably create a large enough subspace field to
encompass everyone. But adjusting the phase inside the field, that's
going to be the hard part. 
PICARD: Make it so. 
RIKER: We have to assume one thing, sir. Wherever Data may be, he's
doing the same thing we are, which is trying to get to the bottom of
this. He may have a better idea about what's going on than we do, so it
might be in the best interests of this mission to find him. 
PICARD: Perhaps in the course of this investigation, we will. I hope
so. 
WORF: If we find Commander Data, it may be our fate to die with him in
the past. If our remains are in that cavern, they would have turned to
dust long ago.

[Ten Forward]

(Guinan is concocting a drink, sprinkling stuff in
and stirring carefully)
PICARD: I'm afraid to interrupt. 
GUINAN: Captain, you didn't have to come all the way down here. I
would've been more than happy to come up to you. 
PICARD: And miss all this? I haven't seen such a complex operation
since the Academy lab final in exochemistry. 
GUINAN: It's a Tzartak aperitif. It's very, very touchy. The trick is
to change the evaporation point of the main ingredient. You want the
temperature where the liquid goes to vapour to be a half a degree below
the body temperature of the customer.
That way, when the liquid touches the tongue, it evaporates, and the
flavour is carried entirely by the vapour. A few molecules off, the
vapour point crashes, and poof! It's all gone. All of it. 
PICARD: What is it you wanted to see me about? 
GUINAN: I hear you're sending an away team down to the surface. Are you
going? 
PICARD: Well, now, this is rather unusual for you to be curious about
an away mission. 
GUINAN: Maybe it's an unusual away mission. 
PICARD: If you have something to say, I'm listening. 
GUINAN: Starfleet captains don't usually accompany away teams. 
PICARD: It's general policy. 
GUINAN: This time, you have to. 
PICARD: Why? 
GUINAN: You just do. Do you remember the first time we met? 
PICARD: Of course. 
GUINAN: Don't be so sure. I just mean, if you don't go on this mission,
(the aperitif
evaporates) we'll never meet.

