PICARD RIKER DATA LAFORGE

[Engineering]

DATA: Interesting. There is a twelve percent
decomposition of the bitanium in the neural pathway links. That
suggests the alloys are vulnerable to 
RIKER: Data, how can you look inside that, analyse the decomposition
without 
DATA: Emotion, sir? 
RIKER: Yes.. 
DATA: I am simply trying to make an objective assessment. 
PICARD: Data, is this yours? 
DATA: I believe so, sir. 
PICARD: Could it be Lore? 
DATA: No, sir. My brother's positronic brain has a type L phase
discriminating amplifier. Mine is a type R. 
PICARD: Type R? 
DATA: Yes, sir. 
PICARD: Can you predict how long this has been in the cavern? 
DATA: Decomposition strongly indicates that life was terminated
approximately five hundred years ago. That would be consistent with the
other artefacts we recovered. 
RIKER: Your head is not an artefact. 
DATA: In relative terms, perhaps not. Nevertheless, it seems clear that
my life is to end in the late nineteenth century. 
RIKER: Not if we can help it. 
DATA: There is no way anyone can prevent it, sir. At some future date,
I will be transported back to nineteenth century Earth, where I will
die. It has occurred. It will occur. 
LAFORGE: Well, I can't tell you exactly who the aliens were, but I have
found out a few things. The triolicised rock face tells
us we're probably dealing with a species with microcentrum cell
membranes. Triolic waves wouldn't harm them. It also might mean they're
shape shifters of some kind. 
RIKER: So they could have appeared on Earth as humans. 
LAFORGE: I don't think it's anyone we've run into before. Nothing we
found matches up with any known lifeforms. What does match up is a
cellular fossil which might have been along just for the ride. 
PICARD: A cellular fossil? 
LAFORGE: A microscopic ciliated lifeform. Not unlike a thousand other
single-celled lifeforms you'd find on any planet surface, except this
particular one is LB one zero four four five. And LB one zero four four
five is only known to exist on one place. Devidia Two, in the Marrab
sector. 
PICARD: Number One, lay in a course. 
RIKER: On my way.

