PICARD [OC] TROI LAFORGE BEGGAR DATA [OC] RIKER BELLBOY DATA MAN
sir linament thank drunk middle sleepware boat fifth like

[Devidia cavern]

DATA [OC]: The upper portion of the apparatus seems
to be a holding facility for the energy segments. There are hundreds,
perhaps thousands of these fragments inside. I have resumed a northerly
direction. There is no evidence yet of humans. 
LAFORGE: Okay, that's enough Data. Come on back now, 
DATA [OC]: I have encountered 
[Bridge]

DATA [OC]: Another lifeform. An ophidian. It seems
to be restricted by a forcefield. 
[Devidia cavern]

DATA [OC]: Two of the silver-grey entities are
approaching it. They have released the forcefield. 
[Bridge]

DATA [OC]: I am reading a temporal distortion of
massive proportions. The ophidian is cap (fritz) time-space continuum. 
[Devidia cavern]

DATA [OC]: Caught in the after effect. I am
attempting 
(there's a flash, and the forcefield generator falls to the ground) 
TROI: Data! 
RIKER: Over here. 
PICARD [OC]: Commander Riker, report. 
RIKER: We've lost him.

[Street]

(Data wakes up on a cobbled street in front of the
No 5 Fire House. A horse-drawn carriage goes by. Data walks off, trying
to get information from passers-by.) 
DATA: Excuse me. Pardon me. I am searching for two individuals with an
ophidian. A snake. 
MAN: Frenchman. 
(He and his companion laugh and walk on. Data finds a discarded copy of
the San Francisco Register, Sunday August 13, 1893, proclaiming a
cholera outbreak) 
BEGGAR: Could you help out a Forty Niner? I fell down a shaft. I got
blown up in a tunnel. 
DATA: That is unfortunate. 
BEGGAR: It is most unfortunate. I require large amounts of whiskey as a
linament. 
DATA: I am sorry, but I have no whiskey to give you. 
BEGGAR: I'll take a dime. 
DATA: I am sorry, but I have no form of legal tender. 
BEGGAR: Well, we're in the same boat, huh? Well, this is my street.
You'll have to go find one of your own. 
DATA: I would be happy to do so, but I am presently in need of
information. 
BEGGAR: Stockbrokers are cheap as hell. Don't even bother to ask. Your
best handout is from a young fella with his lady. You give him a chance
to show her he's generous. Steer clear of sailors. Most likely you'll
get a fist across the jaw for your trouble. 
DATA: Thank you for your advice, but I'm trying to find two individuals
with a snake. 
BEGGAR: A snake? You're an odd fellow, aren't you? But just don't be
too particular where you get your funds from. 
DATA: You are in need of medical attention. I will get a doctor. 
BEGGAR: No, no, no, it's too late for that. (goes after another
passer-by) Could you help out a Forty Niner? 
(outside the Hotel Brian) 
BELLBOY: (receiving a tip) Thanks. 
(he goes to a man standing nearby)
BELLBOY: Hey, put it on Gentleman Jim. Knockout in the fifth. 
MAN: All right. 
DATA: Sir, I need temporary lodging. 
BELLBOY: Looks like the missus booted you out in the middle of the
night. 
DATA: I understand the source of your misperception. However, this is
not sleepware and I do not have a missus. 
BELLBOY: Well. 
DATA: I am a Frenchman. 
BELLBOY: Oh. Well, everybody's from somewhere. That doesn't matter at
this hotel. It's six bits a day or four dollars a week. 
DATA: I have no money. 
BELLBOY: Well, now, that matters. 
DATA: But I am capable of performing significant tasks both mental and
physical. Perhaps your hotel would offer me a job. 
BELLBOY: Geez, I don't know. We're pretty happy with the maid we've
got. Cook's decent. Dishwasher's drunk all day, but at least he gets
here on time. And there's me. I do everything else. Sorry. (a man comes
out) Lady Luck not with ya, tonight, Mister Lane? Poor fella. Hasn't
filled a straight in five weeks. 
DATA: Poker? 

