TROI LAFORGE PICARD RIKER CARMICHAEL [OC] GUINAN BELLBOY CLEMENS CRUSHER DATA CARMICHAEL
century idea literary sisters milan qualified wardrobe bye notion

[Rented room]

(all the away team are in period costume) 
CRUSHER: Over half the victims whose neural energy had been drained
came from the Sisters of Hope Infirmary. 
RIKER: A charity hospital near the waterfront. 
TROI: If the aliens have been killing people there, well, someone might
have noticed something unusual. 
PICARD: And if they're moving among humans, they must have taken on
human form. But the question is, how do we know who we're looking for? 
RIKER: The tricorder indicated triolic activity from most of the bodies
we looked at. If the aliens left that sort of signature, they'll be
detectable. 
LAFORGE: You know, we might even be able to rig some kind of alien
alarm system. 
RIKER: Any luck contacting Data? 
LAFORGE: None. The tricorder's broadcasting random emissions on all
frequencies his sub-processors might pick up, but the range is limited.
Almost anything could interfere. 
(there's a knock at the door) 
LAFORGE: She's back. 
(Geordi takes off his visor) 
CARMICHAEL [OC]: Mister Pikerd! 
PICARD: Yes, Mrs. Carmichael. 
CARMICHAEL: (Irish accent) Mister Pikerd. I'll be reminding you that
it's one o'clock. 
PICARD: Yes. 
CARMICHAEL: One o'clock on a Thursday. I'm sure I made it clear to you
that the rent is always due, payable in full, by one o'clock on
Wednesdays. 
PICARD: Ah, yes, er, the rent. Mrs. Carmichael, even now my troupe are
in rehearsals for a new production. 
CARMICHAEL: Oh? I haven't heard of any new production. What play is it?

PICARD: The play? A Midsummer Night's Dream. We have performed in
London, Paris, Milan. Milan. To sold out houses. I assure you, you will
have the rent, in full, with a bonus. 
CARMICHAEL: Oh, no, no, no, no. I've heard you silver-tongued devils
before. I'll have the rent in full tomorrow by one o'clock or you'll be
out performing on the street.

[Data's hotel room]

BELLBOY: I wouldn't do this for just anybody,
Mister Clemens. And I hope you won't spread it around that I let you
in. People start talking. 
(Clemens starts searching the room) 
CLEMENS: Of course not, Jack. And I assure you that Mister Data would
be most upset if you didn't. If I can't find that Letter of Intent that
he left me, our major investor is going to pull out and take his
business elsewhere. 
BELLBOY: It has to do with Mister Data's engine, doesn't it? 
CLEMENS: Engine? 
BELLBOY: Yes. 
CLEMENS: Oh, yes. Yes, this is exactly what it's all about. Ow! 
(he gets a shock from it) 
BELLBOY: You know, Mister Clemens, I'm going to do you another favour
today. You're always looking for good stories, right? Well, I've got a
real humdinger for you. The story of my life. Now, I know you may think
I'm young, but I've covered a lot of ground and if I do say so myself,
it'd make for some pretty fascinating reading. So, what do you think? 
CLEMENS: About what? 
BELLBOY: About writing my life story. You and me. Literary partners, of
course. 
CLEMENS: Young man, I have a maxim that I have always lived by. No one
is more qualified to write your story than you are. 
BELLBOY: Me? Be a writer? You think I could do that? 
CLEMENS: As long as you write what you know. You got any passions, boy?
Any dreams? 
BELLBOY: I'd like to do some travelling, maybe go to sea. And Alaska.
I've had the strangest notion to go see Alaska. 
CLEMENS: That's a great idea, son. That's exactly what I would do if I
were your age. Alaska, the Klondike, the Aurora Borealis. That's it.
Follow your dreams and write about 'em. 
BELLBOY: Thank you, Mister Clemens. You know, that is exactly what I'm
going to do. 
CLEMENS: You do that, son. 
BELLBOY: You'll see my name in print, too. 
CLEMENS: I'm sure I will. 
BELLBOY: Don't forget. The name's London. Jack London. 
CLEMENS: Goodbye now. Bye-bye. 
(and ushers Jack out of the room and locks the door so he can examine
the Contraption closely. There's the sound of a door, and Clemens hides
in the wardroom. Data and Guinan enter) 
GUINAN: I found the Head Surveyor, I found the cavern. You will not be
able to get to it. The entrance is on a mine shaft that is the middle
of the Presidio on an army base. 
DATA: Perhaps you could arrange for us to get in. 
GUINAN: How? 
DATA: With permission to dig for the mine shaft. 
GUINAN: Oh, no, Data. I've done everything you've asked 
DATA: I have full confidence in your persuasive abilities. 
GUINAN: Well, I suppose it's more interesting than throwing a tea
dance. 
DATA: Strange. The transceiver assembly has been removed. Without it I
will be unable to track the time shifts. 
GUINAN: Twain. 
DATA: Clemens? 
GUINAN: Yes. He's been driving me crazy. He watches the house, he
follows me down the street asking me questions. If anyone took this you
can believe it was him. 
DATA: If you are correct, he must be warned. The device has been
modified in such a way that prolonged contact with human tissue would
be highly toxic. 
(there's a thump from the wardrobe. Data opens the door to reveal the
guilty party. Data picks up the
transceiver that Clemens dropped.) 
CLEMENS: Madame Guinan. Mister Data. 
GUINAN: Shame on you, Mister Clemens. Shame. 
CLEMENS: Shame, madam? I think not. I find no shame in my efforts to
uncover your plot. 
GUINAN: I keep telling you, there is no plot. 
CLEMENS: Yes, you do keep telling me that. What an interesting pair you
are. Where in Switzerland did you say you were from, Mister Data? 
DATA: I am French, sir, not Swiss. 
CLEMENS: Oh yes, that's right, now I remember. A Frenchman with a
talent for poker, from what I hear. You know, I was talking to a friend
of mine, Ches Whitley. He says to say hello and wonders when you're
coming back. 
DATA: I do not believe I know Mister Whitley. 
CLEMENS: No? He works at the County Assayer's office. He says you've
been in there a number of times claiming to be a geological engineer
and wanting information about mining operations during the 1850's. You
remember him now? 
DATA: I am unfamiliar with the gentleman's name. I have spoken to
several people at that office. 
CLEMENS: Yes, I know. And in the Hall of Records, and in the Geological
Society, and a little-known mineral shop in Chinatown. You do get
around, don't you? 
DATA: As apparently you do, Mister Clemens. 
CLEMENS: I must admit you've got me mystified. This contraption, for
instance. It's very unusual. It looks quite futuristic. Tell me, might
it have something to do with time shifts? 
DATA: In a sense. The time shift is a gearing system I have invented
for the horseless carriage. 
CLEMENS: Do not insult me. You have come here to this century and
brought your infernal technology with you for God only knows what
purpose, but I have no doubt it will be the people of this century who
will suffer for it. 
GUINAN: My dear Mister Clemens, I do think we've heard enough. Mister
Data's business is his own, and I will thank you to leave now. 
CLEMENS: Pardon me, Madam Guinan, but it is my business too. It is the
business of all humanity, I believe, to stop both of you from whatever
it is you are doing here. And that is what I intend to do. 
