TROI LAFORGE PICARD RIKER CRUSHER CARMICHAEL

[Morgue]

RIKER: (dressed as a policeman) The coroner said
this is where they kept all the cholera victims. 
CRUSHER: (taking tricorder scans) It doesn't make sense that so many
people are dying of cholera. It just isn't that virulent. Will, this is
strange. 
RIKER: What is it? 
CRUSHER: The cerebellum, the cerebral cortex, the brain stem, the
entire nervous system has been depleted of electrochemical energy.
Here's another one. Same neural depletion. These people did not die of
cholera. They died because their neural energy was drained somehow. 
RIKER: Drained and taken to Devidia Two for those aliens to ingest? If
you were a time traveller with a taste for human neural energy where
would you get your supply? 
CRUSHER: I would travel back to a time when there were plagues and
epidemics, so I could murder and use disease as a cover.

[Rented room]

(all the away team are in period costume) 
CRUSHER: Over half the victims whose neural energy had been drained
came from the Sisters of Hope Infirmary. 
RIKER: A charity hospital near the waterfront. 
TROI: If the aliens have been killing people there, well, someone might
have noticed something unusual. 
PICARD: And if they're moving among humans, they must have taken on
human form. But the question is, how do we know who we're looking for? 
RIKER: The tricorder indicated triolic activity from most of the bodies
we looked at. If the aliens left that sort of signature, they'll be
detectable. 
LAFORGE: You know, we might even be able to rig some kind of alien
alarm system. 
RIKER: Any luck contacting Data? 
LAFORGE: None. The tricorder's broadcasting random emissions on all
frequencies his sub-processors might pick up, but the range is limited.
Almost anything could interfere. 
(there's a knock at the door) 
LAFORGE: She's back. 
(Geordi takes off his visor) 
CARMICHAEL [OC]: Mister Pikerd! 
PICARD: Yes, Mrs. Carmichael. 
CARMICHAEL: (Irish accent) Mister Pikerd. I'll be reminding you that
it's one o'clock. 
PICARD: Yes. 
CARMICHAEL: One o'clock on a Thursday. I'm sure I made it clear to you
that the rent is always due, payable in full, by one o'clock on
Wednesdays. 
PICARD: Ah, yes, er, the rent. Mrs. Carmichael, even now my troupe are
in rehearsals for a new production. 
CARMICHAEL: Oh? I haven't heard of any new production. What play is it?

PICARD: The play? A Midsummer Night's Dream. We have performed in
London, Paris, Milan. Milan. To sold out houses. I assure you, you will
have the rent, in full, with a bonus. 
CARMICHAEL: Oh, no, no, no, no. I've heard you silver-tongued devils
before. I'll have the rent in full tomorrow by one o'clock or you'll be
out performing on the street.

