TROI LAFORGE POLICEMAN PICARD DOCTOR RIKER GUINAN BELLBOY CLEMENS CRUSHER DATA

[Data's hotel room]

BELLBOY: I wouldn't do this for just anybody,
Mister Clemens. And I hope you won't spread it around that I let you
in. People start talking. 
(Clemens starts searching the room) 
CLEMENS: Of course not, Jack. And I assure you that Mister Data would
be most upset if you didn't. If I can't find that Letter of Intent that
he left me, our major investor is going to pull out and take his
business elsewhere. 
BELLBOY: It has to do with Mister Data's engine, doesn't it? 
CLEMENS: Engine? 
BELLBOY: Yes. 
CLEMENS: Oh, yes. Yes, this is exactly what it's all about. Ow! 
(he gets a shock from it) 
BELLBOY: You know, Mister Clemens, I'm going to do you another favour
today. You're always looking for good stories, right? Well, I've got a
real humdinger for you. The story of my life. Now, I know you may think
I'm young, but I've covered a lot of ground and if I do say so myself,
it'd make for some pretty fascinating reading. So, what do you think? 
CLEMENS: About what? 
BELLBOY: About writing my life story. You and me. Literary partners, of
course. 
CLEMENS: Young man, I have a maxim that I have always lived by. No one
is more qualified to write your story than you are. 
BELLBOY: Me? Be a writer? You think I could do that? 
CLEMENS: As long as you write what you know. You got any passions, boy?
Any dreams? 
BELLBOY: I'd like to do some travelling, maybe go to sea. And Alaska.
I've had the strangest notion to go see Alaska. 
CLEMENS: That's a great idea, son. That's exactly what I would do if I
were your age. Alaska, the Klondike, the Aurora Borealis. That's it.
Follow your dreams and write about 'em. 
BELLBOY: Thank you, Mister Clemens. You know, that is exactly what I'm
going to do. 
CLEMENS: You do that, son. 
BELLBOY: You'll see my name in print, too. 
CLEMENS: I'm sure I will. 
BELLBOY: Don't forget. The name's London. Jack London. 
CLEMENS: Goodbye now. Bye-bye. 
(and ushers Jack out of the room and locks the door so he can examine
the Contraption closely. There's the sound of a door, and Clemens hides
in the wardroom. Data and Guinan enter) 
GUINAN: I found the Head Surveyor, I found the cavern. You will not be
able to get to it. The entrance is on a mine shaft that is the middle
of the Presidio on an army base. 
DATA: Perhaps you could arrange for us to get in. 
GUINAN: How? 
DATA: With permission to dig for the mine shaft. 
GUINAN: Oh, no, Data. I've done everything you've asked 
DATA: I have full confidence in your persuasive abilities. 
GUINAN: Well, I suppose it's more interesting than throwing a tea
dance. 
DATA: Strange. The transceiver assembly has been removed. Without it I
will be unable to track the time shifts. 
GUINAN: Twain. 
DATA: Clemens? 
GUINAN: Yes. He's been driving me crazy. He watches the house, he
follows me down the street asking me questions. If anyone took this you
can believe it was him. 
DATA: If you are correct, he must be warned. The device has been
modified in such a way that prolonged contact with human tissue would
be highly toxic. 
(there's a thump from the wardrobe. Data opens the door to reveal the
guilty party. Data picks up the
transceiver that Clemens dropped.) 
CLEMENS: Madame Guinan. Mister Data. 
GUINAN: Shame on you, Mister Clemens. Shame. 
CLEMENS: Shame, madam? I think not. I find no shame in my efforts to
uncover your plot. 
GUINAN: I keep telling you, there is no plot. 
CLEMENS: Yes, you do keep telling me that. What an interesting pair you
are. Where in Switzerland did you say you were from, Mister Data? 
DATA: I am French, sir, not Swiss. 
CLEMENS: Oh yes, that's right, now I remember. A Frenchman with a
talent for poker, from what I hear. You know, I was talking to a friend
of mine, Ches Whitley. He says to say hello and wonders when you're
coming back. 
DATA: I do not believe I know Mister Whitley. 
CLEMENS: No? He works at the County Assayer's office. He says you've
been in there a number of times claiming to be a geological engineer
and wanting information about mining operations during the 1850's. You
remember him now? 
DATA: I am unfamiliar with the gentleman's name. I have spoken to
several people at that office. 
CLEMENS: Yes, I know. And in the Hall of Records, and in the Geological
Society, and a little-known mineral shop in Chinatown. You do get
around, don't you? 
DATA: As apparently you do, Mister Clemens. 
CLEMENS: I must admit you've got me mystified. This contraption, for
instance. It's very unusual. It looks quite futuristic. Tell me, might
it have something to do with time shifts? 
DATA: In a sense. The time shift is a gearing system I have invented
for the horseless carriage. 
CLEMENS: Do not insult me. You have come here to this century and
brought your infernal technology with you for God only knows what
purpose, but I have no doubt it will be the people of this century who
will suffer for it. 
GUINAN: My dear Mister Clemens, I do think we've heard enough. Mister
Data's business is his own, and I will thank you to leave now. 
CLEMENS: Pardon me, Madam Guinan, but it is my business too. It is the
business of all humanity, I believe, to stop both of you from whatever
it is you are doing here. And that is what I intend to do. 
[Sisters of Hope Infirmary]

(Picard is up a ladder working on a gas lamp) 
DOCTOR: Just what are you doing with those lamps? 
PICARD: Replacing the burners. City ordinance. Makes it safer in case
of earthquake. 
DOCTOR: There hasn't been an earthquake here in thirty years. 
PICARD: Well, that's takes care of this ward. Time to be moving on. 
(Picard leaves)
DOCTOR: Earthquakes. Nurse. (Crusher hides her tricorder) If you can
handle things here, I've got a meeting with the Board of Patrons. 
CRUSHER: I'll try to manage. 
(The doctor leaves) 
LAFORGE: There, by that bed. I can see an afterimage of triolic waves.
They've been here recently. I'd say within the last twenty four hours. 
CRUSHER: That's the bed where the man died last night. 
TROI: This man was complaining about a strange doctor and nurse who
visited that patient. Perhaps they're still in the hospital. 
(a patient starts coughing) 
CRUSHER: (gives a drink) Here. This'll make you more comfortable. 
(Picard's gas lamp detector starts flashing and Crusher's tricorder
beeps. She keys her comm. badge then goes over to the slim man and
woman.) 
CRUSHER: Do you need any help, Doctor? Doctor Apollinaire felt he had
entered the algid stage. He was cyanotic, pulse unobservable. That's an
interesting cane. 
(The 'nurse' points her bag at Crusher as Riker, La Forge and Picard
rush in) 
LAFORGE: Doctor! 
(Geordi gets the snake cane off the male and Riker stuns him to no
effect. The couple vanish) 
(Data's contraption goes crazy, he checks a map and rushes out.) 
POLICEMAN: Stand aside, stand aside. Let me in here. People said there
was gunfire in here. What's going on? 
RIKER: Just a little misunderstanding. I was just clearing these people
out of here. 
POLICEMAN: I haven't seen you before. 
RIKER: I was just assigned here this morning. I was working downtown. 
POLICEMAN: I worked downtown for three years. I don't remember you. 
PICARD: We'll be on our way. 
POLICEMAN: No, wait. Wait. I'm going to ask all of you to come down to
the station for questioning. Including you. Where'd you get that?
That's a gentleman's cane. Never seen a cane like this before. I'll
have to confiscate it for evidence. 
RIKER: I just want you to know that I have the utmost respect for the
law. 
(then he punches his lights out) 
PICARD: Let's go. 
