TROI LAFORGE WORF PICARD RIKER CLEMENS CRUSHER DATA

[Cavern]

RIKER: The triolic levels are as high as they were
on Devidia Two. There's no indication of a control mechanism. 
LAFORGE: I'm not so sure. My visor is picking up crystalline fractures.
These cavern walls have undergone some kind of selective molecular
polarisation. In fact, if I'm right this whole cavern has been
configured to focus the space-time distortion. Just like a lens.
Captain, we think we might be on to something. The cavern itself seems
to be acting as a focusing mechanism. I'm willing to bet it's the same
at their habitat back on Devidia Two. 
PICARD: If we can get back there and destroy that site, it might put an
end to their time travelling. 
RIKER: We have the ophidian. 
LAFORGE: Truthfully, I don't know that we can get back. The aliens use
triolic energy as a power source. The energy our phasers generates
might not be entirely compatible. 
PICARD: We have no choice but to try. 
CLEMENS: An event I would most certainly enjoy witnessing. However, I
will regretfully waive that opportunity for the
privilege of taking you all in to the authorities. 
DATA: Mister Clemens, it is imperative that we continue our mission. 
CLEMENS: Mister Data, I have listened to your stories and your excuses
and your evasions, and I will listen no longer. It is my moral duty to
protect mankind from whatever devious plan you have in mind. Now, move
along. I suspect that even time travellers are vulnerable to the Colt
forty five. Now, let's go. I made a young fellow a promise and I don't
want to be late. 
(the two aliens appear and the male grabs the cane from Troi. Data
tackles him and gets it back. The cane activates, the woman disappears,
there's a flash, everyone is thrown to the floor and Data's head comes
adrift. The time portal is open. The male runs through it) 
PICARD: Follow him! 
(Riker, Geordi, Crusher, Troi do so, then Clemens as Picard checks on
Guinan. The portal closes.)

[Devidia cavern]

RIKER: Is everybody all right? 
CRUSHER: I think so. 
RIKER: You! 
CLEMENS: Where are we? And when? 
RIKER: This is the twenty fourth century, we're on Devidia Two, and
you're not supposed to be here. 
CLEMENS: Well it seems to me I have as much right to be in your time as
you had to be in mine. I wanted to see how you've conducted my future
affairs. 
TROI: Your future affairs? 
CLEMENS: The affairs of mankind. 
RIKER: But the disappearance of Mark Twain, one of the most noted
literary figures of the nineteenth century 
CLEMENS: Thank you. 
RIKER: That's not supposed to happen. 
CLEMENS: I only took advantage of an irresistible opportunity, as any
good writer would. 
WORF [OC]: Bridge to Away team. Acknowledge. 
RIKER: We're here, Mister Worf. Stand by to transport five. 
LAFORGE: Commander. 
(Data's headless body is lying on the floor, clutching the cane) 
RIKER: Mister Worf? 
WORF [OC]: Yes, Commander. 
RIKER: Make that six to transport.

