RIKER LAFORGE REPORTER PICARD POLICEMAN CLEMENS DATA

[Infirmary street]

REPORTER: Thanks for your help, officer. 
POLICEMAN: Now, be sure you put in the part about me spotting that
phony policeman. 
REPORTER: Yes, sir. 
CLEMENS: Hello, son. 
REPORTER: Mister Clemens. What brings you here? 
CLEMENS: Writer's curiosity. I heard that two people vanished into thin
air in this Infirmary. 
REPORTER: One of the patients said that, yes, sir, but the police deny
it. 
CLEMENS: I bet they do. 
REPORTER: They say a band of outlaws set off an explosion in the
hospital and then escaped. 
CLEMENS: Well, what did these outlaws look like? 
REPORTER: The carriage they escaped in was driven by an albino. 
CLEMENS: Oh. Mister Data. 
REPORTER: You know him? 
CLEMENS: You bet I do. You say there were others with him? 
REPORTER: Yes, at least a dozen. 
CLEMENS: His accomplices. They've come from the future. My God, it's an
invasion. 
(he hails a cab) 
REPORTER: An invasion from the future? Mister Clemens, what can you
tell me about this? Do you have any proof? 
CLEMENS: When's your deadline, boy? 
REPORTER: Five o'clock, sir. 
CLEMENS: I'll meet you at your paper at four thirty with a story that
will make your career. 
REPORTER: Thanks, Mister Clemens 
CLEMENS: Take me to the Presidio, driver, and don't spare the whip.

[Cavern]

RIKER: The triolic levels are as high as they were
on Devidia Two. There's no indication of a control mechanism. 
LAFORGE: I'm not so sure. My visor is picking up crystalline fractures.
These cavern walls have undergone some kind of selective molecular
polarisation. In fact, if I'm right this whole cavern has been
configured to focus the space-time distortion. Just like a lens.
Captain, we think we might be on to something. The cavern itself seems
to be acting as a focusing mechanism. I'm willing to bet it's the same
at their habitat back on Devidia Two. 
PICARD: If we can get back there and destroy that site, it might put an
end to their time travelling. 
RIKER: We have the ophidian. 
LAFORGE: Truthfully, I don't know that we can get back. The aliens use
triolic energy as a power source. The energy our phasers generates
might not be entirely compatible. 
PICARD: We have no choice but to try. 
CLEMENS: An event I would most certainly enjoy witnessing. However, I
will regretfully waive that opportunity for the
privilege of taking you all in to the authorities. 
DATA: Mister Clemens, it is imperative that we continue our mission. 
CLEMENS: Mister Data, I have listened to your stories and your excuses
and your evasions, and I will listen no longer. It is my moral duty to
protect mankind from whatever devious plan you have in mind. Now, move
along. I suspect that even time travellers are vulnerable to the Colt
forty five. Now, let's go. I made a young fellow a promise and I don't
want to be late. 
(the two aliens appear and the male grabs the cane from Troi. Data
tackles him and gets it back. The cane activates, the woman disappears,
there's a flash, everyone is thrown to the floor and Data's head comes
adrift. The time portal is open. The male runs through it) 
PICARD: Follow him! 
(Riker, Geordi, Crusher, Troi do so, then Clemens as Picard checks on
Guinan. The portal closes.)

