TROI COMPUTER OBRIEN LAFORGE BARCLAY

[Engineering]

LAFORGE: La Forge to Counsellor Troi. 
TROI [OC]: Go ahead, Commander. 
LAFORGE: Counsellor, do you have a minute?

[Corridor]

TROI: Lieutenant Barclay, I've been calling you,
why haven't you responded? Reg, what are you doing? 
BARCLAY: I'm walking. 
(so briskly that Troi almost has to run to keep up) 
TROI: I can see that. Where are you going? 
BARCLAY: Nowhere. I just don't get to these decks very often. Look,
there's Stellar Cartography. I thought that was deck eleven. 
TROI: Mister Barclay. 
BARCLAY: I was I was having trouble sleeping and I'm trying to wear
myself out. It is a perfectly normal thing to be doing, isn't it? 
TROI: Commander La Forge said you seemed a little nervous this morning.

BARCLAY: I'm always nervous. Everybody knows that. 
TROI: He also mentioned that you said you saw something in the
transporter beam. 
BARCLAY: Well I was wrong. They checked the transporter and there
wasn't. I mean, there was nothing there. I imagined the whole thing. 
TROI: You don't sound very convinced of that. 
BARCLAY: Listen, Counsellor, I really appreciate your concern in this
matter but I really wish you wouldn't continue this conversation. I'm
really perfectly fine. 
TROI: Mister Barclay, you're exhausted and highly agitated, and I
cannot allow a member of this crew to endanger himself and others. I
think 
BARCLAY: I'm not endangering anyone else and I wish you would 
TROI: I think it would be in your best interest to take a leave of
absence. Reg, I'm temporarily relieving you of duty. 
BARCLAY: Fine, fine. Do what you have to do, Counsellor.

[Barclay's quarters]

(candles, a seashore soundtrack) 
BARCLAY: Computer more birds. (cacophony) End stress reduction
programme. Water. 
COMPUTER: Specify temperature. 
BARCLAY: I don't care. Just give me water! 
(He downs it in a gulp then does some plexing) 
BARCLAY: Calm, calm, stay calm. (gets into bed) All right, Computer,
let's try some music. Something soothing. 
(but as the gentle violin plays, he sits up with a glowing arm again)

[Transporter room]

O'BRIEN: Sir, begging your pardon, but couldn't
this wait til the morning? 
BARCLAY: No. Chief, I've just, I've been reviewing the transport logs.
What are these energy variations that keep appearing? There was one
when I transported to the science ship, you see? 
O'BRIEN: They're just ionic fluctuations, sir. A result of our
interlock with the Yosemite's transporter system. 
BARCLAY: A fluctuation occurred while I was inside the matter stream? 
O'BRIEN: It's nothing to worry about, sir. 
BARCLAY: I need you to transport me to the science ship and then
directly back again. And while I'm in the beam, can you recreate one of
those ionic fluctuations? 
O'BRIEN: I guess so. But if you don't mind my asking, sir, what for? 
BARCLAY: I need. Commander La Forge wants some tricorder readings on
those fluctuations. 
O'BRIEN: We can do that from right here. 
BARCLAY: No, I, the transporter sensors may not be sensitive enough.
I'm giving you an order, Mister O'Brien. 
O'BRIEN: Aye, sir. If you don't mind my making an observation, sir, you
forgot to bring a tricorder. 
BARCLAY: Either there's something in there or I'm going crazy, and I've
just got to know. You can understand that, can't you? 
O'BRIEN: Yes sir, I can. Stand by, sir. 
(as Barclay is beamed back and forth, that maggot thing is in the
sparkles) 
BARCLAY: I want you to wake the senior staff.

