TROI LAFORGE WORF PICARD RIKER CRUSHER DATA BARCLAY

[Observation lounge]

(Crusher is scanning Barclay's arm) 
BARCLAY: Then I saw it again, just twenty minutes ago. It was the same
exact thing just moving around in the transporter beam. 
RIKER: Let me get this straight. You think this thing was alive? 
BARCLAY: It was dark and distorted, and it had what looked like a
mouth. 
WORF: A mouth. 
CRUSHER: I don't see anything wrong with his arm. 
TROI: Reg, why did you wait so long to tell anybody about your arm? 
BARCLAY: Well, I thought I was hallucinating, that I had, that it was
transporter psychosis. But now I know what I saw in there was real. I
was the only one who experienced ionic fluctuations in the transport.
Maybe that's why no one else saw it. 
PICARD: Mister Barclay, I've been told you've been under a considerable
amount of strain the past couple of days. Isn't it possible that you
simply imagined 
BARCLAY: I know what you're going to say, Captain. I know I've been
acting strange lately. But you've got to believe me. I would never have
called you in here unless I was absolutely certain. 
PICARD: Commander La Forge, get Mister O'Brien. Take that transporter
system apart piece by piece if you have to. Mister Worf, I want a level
three security alert until further notice. 
WORF: Aye, sir. 
CRUSHER: I'll run a micro-cellular scan of Mister Barclay's arm. It
might take some time, but if there's a problem, I'll find it. 
PICARD: Keep me apprised. Dismissed.

[Sickbay]

CRUSHER: I'm reading minute levels of residual
ionisation in the subdermal tissue of his left arm. The patterns
correspond exactly to those we measured in Lieutenant Kelly's body and
in the sample container from the science ship. There's no question. You
have been exposed to the same high energy plasma they were. 
BARCLAY: So something did happen to me in the transporter beam. 
CRUSHER: You might've been exposed to something from the science ship.
You did say something touched your left arm during transport, and
that's exactly where the ionisation is focused. 
RIKER: Does this ionisation pose a threat to Mister Barclay? 
CRUSHER: It might. I'll have to run a base pair correlation to see if
there's any sign of DNA breakdown. 
BARCLAY: Sir, Commander La Forge and I were planning to recreate the
circumstances of the explosion on the Yosemite. That might give us some
answers. Permission to continue with the experiment? 
RIKER: Granted. Tell Mister O'Brien to take all the primary
transporters offline. I don't want to risk any further contaminations.
Make sure you take all the necessary safety precautions. 
BARCLAY: Aye, sir. 
CRUSHER: I'd like you to wear this monitoring device. It will tell me
if there's the slightest sign of increased ionisation. 
(she fastens a band around his left arm) 
BARCLAY: Yes, Doctor.

[Engineering]

DATA: Structural reinforcement is at two hundred
forty percent. 
(a sample container is sitting on a table in the middle of the floor) 
LAFORGE: Activating containment field. Well, that should do it. Okay,
Reg. We've locked onto the coordinates of the plasma streamer. Go ahead
and beam aboard a sample, will you? 
BARCLAY: Aye, sir. 
(the container fills with pink) 
LAFORGE: Okay. What would they have done first? 
DATA: A standard analysis begins with a resonance frequency scan. 
LAFORGE: That sounds like a good place to start. Let's get it done. 
DATA: Initiating resonance sweep. Frequency range at three 
(the container blows apart) 
LAFORGE: Barclay, check the containment field. 
BARCLAY: The field is at its maximum limit, but it is holding. 
LAFORGE: My visor's picking up bio-magnetic energy. Highly complex
patterns. You know, I think these things are alive. Reg. 
(Barclay has passed out) 
LAFORGE: Reg? (Barclay has a lot of purple skin now) Reg.

[Sickbay]

BARCLAY: Life forms? 
DATA: That is correct. They appear to be quasi-energy microbes that
exist within the distortion field of the plasma streamer. 
LAFORGE: We didn't detect them until we tried to run the resonance
frequency scan. Apparently, they didn't like it very much. They
shattered the sample container. 
BARCLAY: Which caused a plasma explosion similar to the one on the
science ship. 
LAFORGE: Exactly. When we linked up with their transporter system, one
or more of the microbes must have got into our system. We think they're
still caught in the buffer. It might explain what you saw. 
BARCLAY: But what I saw was much bigger than a microbe. 
DATA: Normal spatial relationships are often distorted within the
matter stream. Your perceptions may have been exaggerated. 
CRUSHER: Some of these microbes are also in your body, Reg. 
BARCLAY: Inside me? 
CRUSHER: They were in Lieutenant Kelly's body as well. That's what
caused the contractions during the autopsy. 
LAFORGE: The biofilter should have screened them out but it didn't. 
DATA: The microbes exist simultaneously as both matter and energy. The
biofilter cannot distinguish them from the matter stream. 
LAFORGE: Right, but if we held Barclay suspended in mid-transport at
the point where matter starts to lose molecular cohesion. 
DATA: The molecules would begin to emit nucleonic particles. We may be
able to derive a pattern the computer would recognise. 
LAFORGE: And then reprogram the biofilters to screen the microbes out.
I think this'll work, Reg. 
BARCLAY: Suspend me? I don't like the sound of this. 
LAFORGE: We'd have to hold you in there for a while. 
BARCLAY: How long? 
LAFORGE: Thirty, forty seconds. It's tough to tell. But I think it'd be
safe. 
BARCLAY: But if I'm in the matter stream too long. 
DATA: Your pattern would degrade to the point where your signal would
be permanently lost. 
