TROI DATA LAFORGE BARCLAY

[Engineering]

(Barclay's drinking from a flask, checking his
glands and generally being a hypochondriac) 
LAFORGE: From the looks of these fracture patterns, I'd say that the
explosive force came from within the container. 
DATA: The container does show evidence of residual ionisation. I
believe your hypothesis was correct. It was used to store high energy
plasma. 
LAFORGE: So they were collecting samples from the plasma streamer. They
had the proper container. How could it have exploded? 
DATA: Perhaps we should attempt to recreate their experiment to see
what happens when matter is beamed aboard under similar conditions. 
LAFORGE: That's a good idea. We'll prepare a new container. Reg, I
don't want to take any chances here. Start setting up a level five
containment field here in Engineering, okay? 
BARCLAY: Aye, sir. 
DATA: Are you all right, Lieutenant? 
BARCLAY: I'm fine. Yes, thank you. 
(Barclay heads off to the Jefferies tubes) 
DATA: Geordi. Lieutenant Barclay appears inordinately preoccupied with
his physiological condition. I have seen him check his pulse rate, as
well as his visual acuity several times over the last twenty minutes. 
LAFORGE: Thanks, Data.

[Jefferies tube]

LAFORGE: Reg? 
BARCLAY: Yes, sir? 
LAFORGE: You okay? 
BARCLAY: I'm just fine, sir. 
LAFORGE: You look a little pale. 
BARCLAY: I do? 
LAFORGE: Look, Reg, it's been a long couple of days. Why don't you get
some rest. We've got everything under control here. 
BARCLAY: I think I'll do that, sir. Thank you.

[Engineering]

LAFORGE: La Forge to Counsellor Troi. 
TROI [OC]: Go ahead, Commander. 
LAFORGE: Counsellor, do you have a minute?

[Corridor]

TROI: Lieutenant Barclay, I've been calling you,
why haven't you responded? Reg, what are you doing? 
BARCLAY: I'm walking. 
(so briskly that Troi almost has to run to keep up) 
TROI: I can see that. Where are you going? 
BARCLAY: Nowhere. I just don't get to these decks very often. Look,
there's Stellar Cartography. I thought that was deck eleven. 
TROI: Mister Barclay. 
BARCLAY: I was I was having trouble sleeping and I'm trying to wear
myself out. It is a perfectly normal thing to be doing, isn't it? 
TROI: Commander La Forge said you seemed a little nervous this morning.

BARCLAY: I'm always nervous. Everybody knows that. 
TROI: He also mentioned that you said you saw something in the
transporter beam. 
BARCLAY: Well I was wrong. They checked the transporter and there
wasn't. I mean, there was nothing there. I imagined the whole thing. 
TROI: You don't sound very convinced of that. 
BARCLAY: Listen, Counsellor, I really appreciate your concern in this
matter but I really wish you wouldn't continue this conversation. I'm
really perfectly fine. 
TROI: Mister Barclay, you're exhausted and highly agitated, and I
cannot allow a member of this crew to endanger himself and others. I
think 
BARCLAY: I'm not endangering anyone else and I wish you would 
TROI: I think it would be in your best interest to take a leave of
absence. Reg, I'm temporarily relieving you of duty. 
BARCLAY: Fine, fine. Do what you have to do, Counsellor.

