OBRIEN LAFORGE BARCLAY

[USS Yosemite]

(Geordi is beamed away) 
BARCLAY: Barclay to Enterprise. One to beam back. 
O'BRIEN [OC]: Stand by, sir. 
(We join Reg in the transporter experience, including a maggot thing
that bites his arm)

[Transporter room]

O'BRIEN: You see, sir? That wasn't so bad, was it.

[Engineering]

LAFORGE: Mission logs, science logs, medical logs,
they're all scrambled. Looks like the blast wiped out the ship's core
memory. 
BARCLAY: We could try to reconstitute the data stream. 
LAFORGE: It's worth a try. 
BARCLAY: Commander, has anything strange ever happened to you during
transport? 
LAFORGE: Like what? 
BARCLAY: I don't know. Anything out of the ordinary. 
LAFORGE: No, not really. This looks hopeless. We're not going to get
anything out of these logs. You know, maybe this broken sample
container I found can tell us something. Let's try to get this thing
back into one piece. 
BARCLAY: I mean, have you ever seen anything? 
LAFORGE: Where? 
BARCLAY: In the, during transport. 
LAFORGE: Sometimes my visor picks up resonance patterns from the matter
energy conversion. It's actually kind of pretty. Why? 
BARCLAY: Just wondering. 
LAFORGE: Reg, what are you getting at? Did you saw something during
transport? 
BARCLAY: When I was returning to the Enterprise I could've sworn I saw
something in the matter stream. 
LAFORGE: Something? 
BARCLAY: There was phased matter all around. At first I thought it was
some kind of energy discharge, but then it flew toward me and it
touched my arm. How could something be in there? Molecules flying
apart, half phased? I mean, it's impossible, isn't it? 
LAFORGE: We'd better check it out. When we're done here, we'll run a
full diagnostic on the transporter, all right? 
BARCLAY: All right.

[Transporter room]

O'BRIEN: The confinement beam subsystems check out.
So do the phase transition coils. 
LAFORGE: The pattern buffer is fine. 
O'BRIEN: Emitter pads, targeting scanners, they're all working fine.
This system's clean. So is the science vessel's. 
LAFORGE: Reg, there's a lot of energy floating around in the beam.
Maybe you saw a surge in the matter stream. 
BARCLAY: Yeah. 
O'BRIEN: I'll run a scan on the Heisenberg compensators. 
BARCLAY: No, Chief, you've done enough already. 
O'BRIEN: It's no problem. Why don't you give me a hand? 
BARCLAY: You know, maybe ignorance really is bliss. 
O'BRIEN: Sir? 
BARCLAY: Well, if I didn't know so much about these things, maybe they
wouldn't scare me so much. I can still remember the day in Doctor
Olafson's Transporter Theory class when he was talking about the body
being converted into billions of kiloquads of data, zipping through
subspace, and I realised there's no margin for error. One atom out of
place and poof! You never come back. It's amazing people aren't lost
all the time. 
O'BRIEN: With all due respect, sir, I've been doing this for twenty two
years and I haven't lost anybody yet. 
BARCLAY: Yes, but you realise if these imaging scanners are off even a
thousandth of a percent. 
O'BRIEN: That's why each pad has four redundant scanners. If any one
scanner fails, the other three take over. 
LAFORGE: Reg, how many transporter accidents have there been in the
last ten years? Two? Three? There are millions of people who transport
safely every day without a problem. 
BARCLAY: I've heard of problems. What about transporter psychosis? 
O'BRIEN: Transporter Psychosis? There hasn't been a case of that in
over fifty years. Not since they perfected the multiplex pattern
buffers. 
LAFORGE: Reg, transporting really is the safest way to travel.

