TROI OBRIEN LAFORGE WORF PICARD RIKER CRUSHER DATA BARCLAY

[Transporter room]

O'BRIEN: Sir, begging your pardon, but couldn't
this wait til the morning? 
BARCLAY: No. Chief, I've just, I've been reviewing the transport logs.
What are these energy variations that keep appearing? There was one
when I transported to the science ship, you see? 
O'BRIEN: They're just ionic fluctuations, sir. A result of our
interlock with the Yosemite's transporter system. 
BARCLAY: A fluctuation occurred while I was inside the matter stream? 
O'BRIEN: It's nothing to worry about, sir. 
BARCLAY: I need you to transport me to the science ship and then
directly back again. And while I'm in the beam, can you recreate one of
those ionic fluctuations? 
O'BRIEN: I guess so. But if you don't mind my asking, sir, what for? 
BARCLAY: I need. Commander La Forge wants some tricorder readings on
those fluctuations. 
O'BRIEN: We can do that from right here. 
BARCLAY: No, I, the transporter sensors may not be sensitive enough.
I'm giving you an order, Mister O'Brien. 
O'BRIEN: Aye, sir. If you don't mind my making an observation, sir, you
forgot to bring a tricorder. 
BARCLAY: Either there's something in there or I'm going crazy, and I've
just got to know. You can understand that, can't you? 
O'BRIEN: Yes sir, I can. Stand by, sir. 
(as Barclay is beamed back and forth, that maggot thing is in the
sparkles) 
BARCLAY: I want you to wake the senior staff.

[Observation lounge]

(Crusher is scanning Barclay's arm) 
BARCLAY: Then I saw it again, just twenty minutes ago. It was the same
exact thing just moving around in the transporter beam. 
RIKER: Let me get this straight. You think this thing was alive? 
BARCLAY: It was dark and distorted, and it had what looked like a
mouth. 
WORF: A mouth. 
CRUSHER: I don't see anything wrong with his arm. 
TROI: Reg, why did you wait so long to tell anybody about your arm? 
BARCLAY: Well, I thought I was hallucinating, that I had, that it was
transporter psychosis. But now I know what I saw in there was real. I
was the only one who experienced ionic fluctuations in the transport.
Maybe that's why no one else saw it. 
PICARD: Mister Barclay, I've been told you've been under a considerable
amount of strain the past couple of days. Isn't it possible that you
simply imagined 
BARCLAY: I know what you're going to say, Captain. I know I've been
acting strange lately. But you've got to believe me. I would never have
called you in here unless I was absolutely certain. 
PICARD: Commander La Forge, get Mister O'Brien. Take that transporter
system apart piece by piece if you have to. Mister Worf, I want a level
three security alert until further notice. 
WORF: Aye, sir. 
CRUSHER: I'll run a micro-cellular scan of Mister Barclay's arm. It
might take some time, but if there's a problem, I'll find it. 
PICARD: Keep me apprised. Dismissed.

[Sickbay]

CRUSHER: I'm reading minute levels of residual
ionisation in the subdermal tissue of his left arm. The patterns
correspond exactly to those we measured in Lieutenant Kelly's body and
in the sample container from the science ship. There's no question. You
have been exposed to the same high energy plasma they were. 
BARCLAY: So something did happen to me in the transporter beam. 
CRUSHER: You might've been exposed to something from the science ship.
You did say something touched your left arm during transport, and
that's exactly where the ionisation is focused. 
RIKER: Does this ionisation pose a threat to Mister Barclay? 
CRUSHER: It might. I'll have to run a base pair correlation to see if
there's any sign of DNA breakdown. 
BARCLAY: Sir, Commander La Forge and I were planning to recreate the
circumstances of the explosion on the Yosemite. That might give us some
answers. Permission to continue with the experiment? 
RIKER: Granted. Tell Mister O'Brien to take all the primary
transporters offline. I don't want to risk any further contaminations.
Make sure you take all the necessary safety precautions. 
BARCLAY: Aye, sir. 
CRUSHER: I'd like you to wear this monitoring device. It will tell me
if there's the slightest sign of increased ionisation. 
(she fastens a band around his left arm) 
BARCLAY: Yes, Doctor.

[Engineering]

DATA: Structural reinforcement is at two hundred
forty percent. 
(a sample container is sitting on a table in the middle of the floor) 
LAFORGE: Activating containment field. Well, that should do it. Okay,
Reg. We've locked onto the coordinates of the plasma streamer. Go ahead
and beam aboard a sample, will you? 
BARCLAY: Aye, sir. 
(the container fills with pink) 
LAFORGE: Okay. What would they have done first? 
DATA: A standard analysis begins with a resonance frequency scan. 
LAFORGE: That sounds like a good place to start. Let's get it done. 
DATA: Initiating resonance sweep. Frequency range at three 
(the container blows apart) 
LAFORGE: Barclay, check the containment field. 
BARCLAY: The field is at its maximum limit, but it is holding. 
LAFORGE: My visor's picking up bio-magnetic energy. Highly complex
patterns. You know, I think these things are alive. Reg. 
(Barclay has passed out) 
LAFORGE: Reg? (Barclay has a lot of purple skin now) Reg.

