RIKER LAFORGE PICARD COMPUTER CRUSHER DATA BARCLAY

[Barclay's quarters]

BARCLAY: Water, ten degrees Celsius. Computer,
access Starfleet Medical Database. Tell me about, er. Describe the
disorder transporter psychosis. 
COMPUTER: Transporter psychosis was diagnosed in the year twenty two oh
nine by researchers on Delinia Two. 
BARCLAY: No, no stop. All I need is, what causes it? 
COMPUTER: It is caused by a breakdown of neuro-chemical molecules
during transport, affecting the body's motor functions, autonomic
systems, and the brain's higher reasoning centres. 
BARCLAY: What are the symptoms? 
COMPUTER: Victims suffer from paranoid delusions, multi-infarct
dementia, hallucinations. 
BARCLAY: Hallucinations? What kind of hallucinations? 
COMPUTER: Victims experience somatic, tactile and visual
hallucinations, accompanied by psychogenic hysteria. Peripheral
symptoms include sleeplessness, accelerated heart rate, diminished
eyesight leading to acute myopia, painful spasms in the extremities,
and in most cases, dehydration. 
BARCLAY: Computer what is the treatment for transporter psychosis? 
COMPUTER: There is no known treatment.

[Observation lounge]

CRUSHER: The autopsy showed residual ionisation in
every one of Lieutenant Kelly's systems. I think that's what caused the
muscular and systemic contractions. 
RIKER: From where did the ionisation come? 
CRUSHER: There's evidence of electrical burns on the victim's body, as
if he was exposed to ionised gas or high energy plasma. 
LAFORGE: Plasma? There's no way they could've been exposed, unless it
was matter from the streamer. 
PICARD: Is there evidence of a hull breach? Could plasma from the
streamer have found its way into the ship? 
LAFORGE: No. Data, what's the report on that broken sample container? 
DATA: The analysis of the fragments is not yet complete. 
LAFORGE: Captain, if there's evidence of similar ionisation in those
fragments, it could mean they tried to beam aboard material from the
streamer. 
PICARD: If the plasma exploded that would explain a few things. Let me
know when the analysis is complete. 
LAFORGE: Aye, sir.

[Engineering]

(Barclay's drinking from a flask, checking his
glands and generally being a hypochondriac) 
LAFORGE: From the looks of these fracture patterns, I'd say that the
explosive force came from within the container. 
DATA: The container does show evidence of residual ionisation. I
believe your hypothesis was correct. It was used to store high energy
plasma. 
LAFORGE: So they were collecting samples from the plasma streamer. They
had the proper container. How could it have exploded? 
DATA: Perhaps we should attempt to recreate their experiment to see
what happens when matter is beamed aboard under similar conditions. 
LAFORGE: That's a good idea. We'll prepare a new container. Reg, I
don't want to take any chances here. Start setting up a level five
containment field here in Engineering, okay? 
BARCLAY: Aye, sir. 
DATA: Are you all right, Lieutenant? 
BARCLAY: I'm fine. Yes, thank you. 
(Barclay heads off to the Jefferies tubes) 
DATA: Geordi. Lieutenant Barclay appears inordinately preoccupied with
his physiological condition. I have seen him check his pulse rate, as
well as his visual acuity several times over the last twenty minutes. 
LAFORGE: Thanks, Data.

[Jefferies tube]

LAFORGE: Reg? 
BARCLAY: Yes, sir? 
LAFORGE: You okay? 
BARCLAY: I'm just fine, sir. 
LAFORGE: You look a little pale. 
BARCLAY: I do? 
LAFORGE: Look, Reg, it's been a long couple of days. Why don't you get
some rest. We've got everything under control here. 
BARCLAY: I think I'll do that, sir. Thank you.

