RIKER LAFORGE PICARD TROI CRUSHER DATA BARCLAY

[Observation lounge]

CRUSHER: The autopsy showed residual ionisation in
every one of Lieutenant Kelly's systems. I think that's what caused the
muscular and systemic contractions. 
RIKER: From where did the ionisation come? 
CRUSHER: There's evidence of electrical burns on the victim's body, as
if he was exposed to ionised gas or high energy plasma. 
LAFORGE: Plasma? There's no way they could've been exposed, unless it
was matter from the streamer. 
PICARD: Is there evidence of a hull breach? Could plasma from the
streamer have found its way into the ship? 
LAFORGE: No. Data, what's the report on that broken sample container? 
DATA: The analysis of the fragments is not yet complete. 
LAFORGE: Captain, if there's evidence of similar ionisation in those
fragments, it could mean they tried to beam aboard material from the
streamer. 
PICARD: If the plasma exploded that would explain a few things. Let me
know when the analysis is complete. 
LAFORGE: Aye, sir.

[Engineering]

(Barclay's drinking from a flask, checking his
glands and generally being a hypochondriac) 
LAFORGE: From the looks of these fracture patterns, I'd say that the
explosive force came from within the container. 
DATA: The container does show evidence of residual ionisation. I
believe your hypothesis was correct. It was used to store high energy
plasma. 
LAFORGE: So they were collecting samples from the plasma streamer. They
had the proper container. How could it have exploded? 
DATA: Perhaps we should attempt to recreate their experiment to see
what happens when matter is beamed aboard under similar conditions. 
LAFORGE: That's a good idea. We'll prepare a new container. Reg, I
don't want to take any chances here. Start setting up a level five
containment field here in Engineering, okay? 
BARCLAY: Aye, sir. 
DATA: Are you all right, Lieutenant? 
BARCLAY: I'm fine. Yes, thank you. 
(Barclay heads off to the Jefferies tubes) 
DATA: Geordi. Lieutenant Barclay appears inordinately preoccupied with
his physiological condition. I have seen him check his pulse rate, as
well as his visual acuity several times over the last twenty minutes. 
LAFORGE: Thanks, Data.

[Jefferies tube]

LAFORGE: Reg? 
BARCLAY: Yes, sir? 
LAFORGE: You okay? 
BARCLAY: I'm just fine, sir. 
LAFORGE: You look a little pale. 
BARCLAY: I do? 
LAFORGE: Look, Reg, it's been a long couple of days. Why don't you get
some rest. We've got everything under control here. 
BARCLAY: I think I'll do that, sir. Thank you.

[Engineering]

LAFORGE: La Forge to Counsellor Troi. 
TROI [OC]: Go ahead, Commander. 
LAFORGE: Counsellor, do you have a minute?

