LAFORGE COMPUTER O'BRIEN OGAWA CRUSHER BARCLAY
closer include like ll olafson redundant pulls beating autopsy

[Transporter room]

O'BRIEN: The confinement beam subsystems check out.
So do the phase transition coils. 
LAFORGE: The pattern buffer is fine. 
O'BRIEN: Emitter pads, targeting scanners, they're all working fine.
This system's clean. So is the science vessel's. 
LAFORGE: Reg, there's a lot of energy floating around in the beam.
Maybe you saw a surge in the matter stream. 
BARCLAY: Yeah. 
O'BRIEN: I'll run a scan on the Heisenberg compensators. 
BARCLAY: No, Chief, you've done enough already. 
O'BRIEN: It's no problem. Why don't you give me a hand? 
BARCLAY: You know, maybe ignorance really is bliss. 
O'BRIEN: Sir? 
BARCLAY: Well, if I didn't know so much about these things, maybe they
wouldn't scare me so much. I can still remember the day in Doctor
Olafson's Transporter Theory class when he was talking about the body
being converted into billions of kiloquads of data, zipping through
subspace, and I realised there's no margin for error. One atom out of
place and poof! You never come back. It's amazing people aren't lost
all the time. 
O'BRIEN: With all due respect, sir, I've been doing this for twenty two
years and I haven't lost anybody yet. 
BARCLAY: Yes, but you realise if these imaging scanners are off even a
thousandth of a percent. 
O'BRIEN: That's why each pad has four redundant scanners. If any one
scanner fails, the other three take over. 
LAFORGE: Reg, how many transporter accidents have there been in the
last ten years? Two? Three? There are millions of people who transport
safely every day without a problem. 
BARCLAY: I've heard of problems. What about transporter psychosis? 
O'BRIEN: Transporter Psychosis? There hasn't been a case of that in
over fifty years. Not since they perfected the multiplex pattern
buffers. 
LAFORGE: Reg, transporting really is the safest way to travel.

[Sickbay]

(the autopsy is underway) 
CRUSHER: I'd like to take a closer look at those burns. Take a tissue
sample, please. 
OGAWA: Yes, Doctor. 
CRUSHER: Damage to the epidermis only. Initiate a circulatory probe. 
OGAWA: Doctor Crusher! 
CRUSHER: His heart's beating! Cardio-stimulator. Now. It's gone. 
OGAWA: Neuro-electrical activity in the cerebral cortex. Nothing. 
CRUSHER: Now the respiratory system's active. What the hell is going
on? 
[Ten Forward]

(Barclay goes to a table with a glass of water,
then clutches his arm. He pulls up the sleeve to reveal that his skin
is glowing purple, then it returns to normal.)

[Barclay's quarters]

BARCLAY: Water, ten degrees Celsius. Computer,
access Starfleet Medical Database. Tell me about, er. Describe the
disorder transporter psychosis. 
COMPUTER: Transporter psychosis was diagnosed in the year twenty two oh
nine by researchers on Delinia Two. 
BARCLAY: No, no stop. All I need is, what causes it? 
COMPUTER: It is caused by a breakdown of neuro-chemical molecules
during transport, affecting the body's motor functions, autonomic
systems, and the brain's higher reasoning centres. 
BARCLAY: What are the symptoms? 
COMPUTER: Victims suffer from paranoid delusions, multi-infarct
dementia, hallucinations. 
BARCLAY: Hallucinations? What kind of hallucinations? 
COMPUTER: Victims experience somatic, tactile and visual
hallucinations, accompanied by psychogenic hysteria. Peripheral
symptoms include sleeplessness, accelerated heart rate, diminished
eyesight leading to acute myopia, painful spasms in the extremities,
and in most cases, dehydration. 
BARCLAY: Computer what is the treatment for transporter psychosis? 
COMPUTER: There is no known treatment.

