RIKER LAFORGE WORF WORF [OC] O'BRIEN CREWMAN CRUSHER DATA BARCLAY
begins eye fills doctor drop mid aboard crewmembers calm

[Sickbay]

CRUSHER: I'm reading minute levels of residual
ionisation in the subdermal tissue of his left arm. The patterns
correspond exactly to those we measured in Lieutenant Kelly's body and
in the sample container from the science ship. There's no question. You
have been exposed to the same high energy plasma they were. 
BARCLAY: So something did happen to me in the transporter beam. 
CRUSHER: You might've been exposed to something from the science ship.
You did say something touched your left arm during transport, and
that's exactly where the ionisation is focused. 
RIKER: Does this ionisation pose a threat to Mister Barclay? 
CRUSHER: It might. I'll have to run a base pair correlation to see if
there's any sign of DNA breakdown. 
BARCLAY: Sir, Commander La Forge and I were planning to recreate the
circumstances of the explosion on the Yosemite. That might give us some
answers. Permission to continue with the experiment? 
RIKER: Granted. Tell Mister O'Brien to take all the primary
transporters offline. I don't want to risk any further contaminations.
Make sure you take all the necessary safety precautions. 
BARCLAY: Aye, sir. 
CRUSHER: I'd like you to wear this monitoring device. It will tell me
if there's the slightest sign of increased ionisation. 
(she fastens a band around his left arm) 
BARCLAY: Yes, Doctor.

[Engineering]

DATA: Structural reinforcement is at two hundred
forty percent. 
(a sample container is sitting on a table in the middle of the floor) 
LAFORGE: Activating containment field. Well, that should do it. Okay,
Reg. We've locked onto the coordinates of the plasma streamer. Go ahead
and beam aboard a sample, will you? 
BARCLAY: Aye, sir. 
(the container fills with pink) 
LAFORGE: Okay. What would they have done first? 
DATA: A standard analysis begins with a resonance frequency scan. 
LAFORGE: That sounds like a good place to start. Let's get it done. 
DATA: Initiating resonance sweep. Frequency range at three 
(the container blows apart) 
LAFORGE: Barclay, check the containment field. 
BARCLAY: The field is at its maximum limit, but it is holding. 
LAFORGE: My visor's picking up bio-magnetic energy. Highly complex
patterns. You know, I think these things are alive. Reg. 
(Barclay has passed out) 
LAFORGE: Reg? (Barclay has a lot of purple skin now) Reg.

[Sickbay]

BARCLAY: Life forms? 
DATA: That is correct. They appear to be quasi-energy microbes that
exist within the distortion field of the plasma streamer. 
LAFORGE: We didn't detect them until we tried to run the resonance
frequency scan. Apparently, they didn't like it very much. They
shattered the sample container. 
BARCLAY: Which caused a plasma explosion similar to the one on the
science ship. 
LAFORGE: Exactly. When we linked up with their transporter system, one
or more of the microbes must have got into our system. We think they're
still caught in the buffer. It might explain what you saw. 
BARCLAY: But what I saw was much bigger than a microbe. 
DATA: Normal spatial relationships are often distorted within the
matter stream. Your perceptions may have been exaggerated. 
CRUSHER: Some of these microbes are also in your body, Reg. 
BARCLAY: Inside me? 
CRUSHER: They were in Lieutenant Kelly's body as well. That's what
caused the contractions during the autopsy. 
LAFORGE: The biofilter should have screened them out but it didn't. 
DATA: The microbes exist simultaneously as both matter and energy. The
biofilter cannot distinguish them from the matter stream. 
LAFORGE: Right, but if we held Barclay suspended in mid-transport at
the point where matter starts to lose molecular cohesion. 
DATA: The molecules would begin to emit nucleonic particles. We may be
able to derive a pattern the computer would recognise. 
LAFORGE: And then reprogram the biofilters to screen the microbes out.
I think this'll work, Reg. 
BARCLAY: Suspend me? I don't like the sound of this. 
LAFORGE: We'd have to hold you in there for a while. 
BARCLAY: How long? 
LAFORGE: Thirty, forty seconds. It's tough to tell. But I think it'd be
safe. 
BARCLAY: But if I'm in the matter stream too long. 
DATA: Your pattern would degrade to the point where your signal would
be permanently lost. 
[Transporter room]

(Barclay and Crusher enter. She sets up some
equipment) 
O'BRIEN: After fifteen seconds or so in the beam, you may start to feel
light-headed. Try to stay calm. Oh, and it's important not to move
around too much. 
BARCLAY: Right. 
O'BRIEN: Initialising the back-up pattern buffer. Holding at stand by. 
LAFORGE: Ready, Reg? 
BARCLAY: Energise. 
O'BRIEN: Molecular resolution at sixty percent. Engaging static mode.
His pattern is locked and holding. 
LAFORGE: Starting biofilter scan. 
(Barclay sees a maggot in the matter stream) 
O'BRIEN: Signal's holding. 
CRUSHER: The imaging scanners still haven't isolated the microbes. 
O'BRIEN: I'll try increasing molecular dispersion. 
LAFORGE: His signal resolution's dropped to fifty five percent. 
O'BRIEN: Don't worry. I can hold him together. 
(the huge 'microbe' is eye to eye with Barclay) 
O'BRIEN: Commander, the signal resolution's down to fifty percent. We
need to bring him back. 
LAFORGE: I know, I know. Just give me one more second. We need more
dispersion. Increase phase transition frequency 
O'BRIEN: Aye, sir. 
CRUSHER: The imaging scanners are actuating. 
LAFORGE: Got it. Pattern acquisition Positive. 
O'BRIEN: Programming biofilter. 
LAFORGE: Don't worry, Reg. This won't hurt a bit. 
(now there are three 'microbes' with Barclay. He grabs the first one
and clutches it to his chest) 
O'BRIEN: I'm reading a ninety two percent increase in mass! 
LAFORGE: There's something in the beam with him. Security to
Transporter room three. 
WORF [OC]: Right away. 
O'BRIEN: I'm setting up a force field round the chamber. 
(Barclay is materialised with his back to them, holding another person.
They both fall to the floor) 
CRUSHER: Drop the force field. 
(Worf and two security personnel enter) 
BARCLAY: There are more crew members in the beam. You have to grab them
and hold on. 
WORF: Understood. Follow me. 
LAFORGE: Reg, what happened? 
BARCLAY: Well, when I saw there was more than one of them, I thought
maybe the other crew was trying the same thing that we were. 
CREWMAN: We're infected with something. Lieutenant Kelly tried to
reprogram the biofilter 
LAFORGE: It looks like he pushed molecular dispersion past the
integrity point. Your patterns got caught in the beam. 
BARCLAY: The residual energy from the plasma streamer. It must've
amplified the charge in the buffer enough to keep your patterns from
degrading. 
(Worf and the security team are beamed back with three more Yosemite
crewmembers) 
Captain's log, stardate 46043.6. The reprogrammed
biofilter was effective in removing the alien microbes from Mister
Barclay and the four crewmembers. The microbes have been returned to
the plasma streamer.

