TROI JANEWAY JARTH PICARD ENSIGN RIKER ALKAR LIVA
week make leaving try broken won realise sounds really

[Troi's quarters]

ENSIGN: Sir!
RIKER: As you were.
ENSIGN: Yes, sir. Thank you, sir. I was just leaving.
TROI: If there's anything else I need, I know where to find you. 
ENSIGN: Yes, ma'am.
(embarrassed toy boy rushes out) 
TROI: Are you bothered by his being here?
RIKER: Of course not.
TROI: Good. Because it's really none of your business.
RIKER: I know that. I believe we were with Lieutenant Fratis i n
molecular biology.
TROI: Why do I think you're upset?
RIKER: I don't know. Could we just continue with the evaluation?
TROI: Will, remember who you're talking to. You are bothered, I can
tell. 
RIKER: Deanna, I'm sorry I intruded. When you're ready to work, why
don't you give me a call. 
TROI: I will.

Captain's log, stardate 46073.6. We have arrived
without incident at Rekag-Seronia, where two members of Ambassador
Alkar's delegation have been waiting. They have joined us to report on
the situation in the capital city.

[Observation lounge]

JARTH: (a man) Things have deteriorated steadily.
Rekag sympathisers in outlying districts have attacked several towns.
PICARD: But I was under the impression there was a cease fire agreement.
JARTH: It was broken before it went into effect. A Rekag shuttle
strayed into Seronian space and was destroyed by fighter craft.
LIVA: (a woman) Naturally, the Rekags retaliated. There's been fighting
ever since.
ALKAR: If they would just sit down with me.
JARTH: The Rekags won't go into Seronian territory for talks. And the
Seronians won't go to Rekag. In the meantime, they fight.
PICARD: Ambassador, the situation sounds so volatile. Perhaps a cooling
off period? 
ALKAR: These people need an end to the fighting now. To delay a week,
even a few days, could cost thousands of lives.
PICARD: Then I would recommend that we ask both sides if they would
agree to meet in the city of Darthen.
LIVA: Why Darthen?
PICARD: It's a coastal city that has been neutral throughout the
conflict. Both Seronians and Rekag loyalists live there. It might be
acceptable as a compromise.
ALKAR: Contact the leaders. If they'll meet me in Darthen, I will join
them there tomorrow.

[Troi's office]

JANEWAY: (a woman) I know it must be my
imagination, but it seems as though Lieutenant Pinder just doesn't want
me in his section.
TROI: What makes you think that?
JANEWAY: He's so critical. I can't ever do anything to please him and I
try, Counsellor, I try to make sure there's nothing he could find fault
with.
TROI: Give me an example of what you mean.
JANEWAY: Well, yesterday I was running routine diagnostics on the
sensor pallets. They checked out, but Lieutenant Pinder questioned me
because I'd allowed a point oh two three variance. That's well within
specifications. He goes out of his way to criticise me.
TROI: Do you know of any reason why he might do that?
JANEWAY: No, that's why I'm here.
TROI: Well, maybe he's just tired of hearing you complain.
JANEWAY: Pardon me?
TROI: I know I'm certainly tired of it. How do you think it feels to
sit and listen to someone whine about themselves all the time?
JANEWAY: I didn't realise I was 
TROI: This isn't Starfleet Academy. You're not going to be coddled. If
you can't take it here, then you might think about a transport ship.
There's a lot less pressure there.
JANEWAY: But I love being on the Enterprise I don't want to be anywhere
else.
TROI: If you aren't up to it then you don't deserve to be here. Isn't
that right?
JANEWAY: I guess so.
TROI: So you'd better take a hold of yourself, or be prepared for a
transfer.
JANEWAY: I will, Counsellor. Thank you.
TROI: Glad I could help.

