TROI JANEWAY JARTH PICARD ALKAR LIVA CRUSHER LAFORGE

[Observation lounge]

JARTH: (a man) Things have deteriorated steadily.
Rekag sympathisers in outlying districts have attacked several towns.
PICARD: But I was under the impression there was a cease fire agreement.
JARTH: It was broken before it went into effect. A Rekag shuttle
strayed into Seronian space and was destroyed by fighter craft.
LIVA: (a woman) Naturally, the Rekags retaliated. There's been fighting
ever since.
ALKAR: If they would just sit down with me.
JARTH: The Rekags won't go into Seronian territory for talks. And the
Seronians won't go to Rekag. In the meantime, they fight.
PICARD: Ambassador, the situation sounds so volatile. Perhaps a cooling
off period? 
ALKAR: These people need an end to the fighting now. To delay a week,
even a few days, could cost thousands of lives.
PICARD: Then I would recommend that we ask both sides if they would
agree to meet in the city of Darthen.
LIVA: Why Darthen?
PICARD: It's a coastal city that has been neutral throughout the
conflict. Both Seronians and Rekag loyalists live there. It might be
acceptable as a compromise.
ALKAR: Contact the leaders. If they'll meet me in Darthen, I will join
them there tomorrow.

[Troi's office]

JANEWAY: (a woman) I know it must be my
imagination, but it seems as though Lieutenant Pinder just doesn't want
me in his section.
TROI: What makes you think that?
JANEWAY: He's so critical. I can't ever do anything to please him and I
try, Counsellor, I try to make sure there's nothing he could find fault
with.
TROI: Give me an example of what you mean.
JANEWAY: Well, yesterday I was running routine diagnostics on the
sensor pallets. They checked out, but Lieutenant Pinder questioned me
because I'd allowed a point oh two three variance. That's well within
specifications. He goes out of his way to criticise me.
TROI: Do you know of any reason why he might do that?
JANEWAY: No, that's why I'm here.
TROI: Well, maybe he's just tired of hearing you complain.
JANEWAY: Pardon me?
TROI: I know I'm certainly tired of it. How do you think it feels to
sit and listen to someone whine about themselves all the time?
JANEWAY: I didn't realise I was 
TROI: This isn't Starfleet Academy. You're not going to be coddled. If
you can't take it here, then you might think about a transport ship.
There's a lot less pressure there.
JANEWAY: But I love being on the Enterprise I don't want to be anywhere
else.
TROI: If you aren't up to it then you don't deserve to be here. Isn't
that right?
JANEWAY: I guess so.
TROI: So you'd better take a hold of yourself, or be prepared for a
transfer.
JANEWAY: I will, Counsellor. Thank you.
TROI: Glad I could help.

[Engineering]

LAFORGE: Yeah, here we go. Biofilter log on Sev
Maylor. 
CRUSHER: Geordi, could this log have been damaged in any way?
LAFORGE: I don't think so. Why do you ask?
CRUSHER: There's a discrepancy between the log and the tricorder
readings I took just three days later. The tricorder shows massive
physiological deterioration compared with her condition when she beamed
aboard. I find it hard to believe that so much damage could have
occurred in such a short period of time.
LAFORGE: Well I can run a diagnostic of the biofilter system and your
tricorder.
CRUSHER: Thanks. Of course, the best way to get the information I need
would be to do an autopsy.

