TROI PICARD ALKAR CHIEF LIVA WORF [OC] OGAWA CRUSHER
arguing releasing children quickly guards does care day told

[Transporter room]

PICARD: Ambassador, I came to alert you that the
Rekags and the Seronians are in disagreement about the seating
arrangements at the conference table.
ALKAR: I'm not surprised.
PICARD: The good news, however, is that the cease fire seems to be
holding.
ALKAR: And that is by far the best news. Thank you, Captain.
PICARD: Chief. 
(Troi enters, looking even older) 
TROI: Will you take me with you?
PICARD: Deanna? 
ALKAR: Deanna, I've already told you I can't
TROI: I won't let her have you 
(Troi produces a knife, and Picard wrestles her for it, getting cut in
the process. The transporter chief and Jarth pull her off him) 
PICARD: Security to Transporter room two.
TROI: Don't try and stop me! No, no, let go! 
(Riker and Crusher enter) 
PICARD: It's nothing, it's superficial. What happened to Deanna?
CRUSHER: All of the systems in her body have elevated readings. Take
her to Sickbay. I want to see you in Sickbay too. 
ALKAR: Captain, perhaps we should delay transporting to the surface. 
PICARD: No. You should proceed with your mission.
ALKAR: Very well.
PICARD: Chief, transport them to the planet surface.
CHIEF: Aye, sir.

[Sickbay]

(Troi is writhing in a restraining forcefield) 
CRUSHER: We'll have to sedate her. Twenty cc's of melorazine.
OGAWA: Yes, Doctor.
CRUSHER: How's it feeling?
PICARD: It's a little stiff, but it'll be fine.
CRUSHER: It'll disappear in a day or two.
OGAWA: Doctor Crusher? I think you should see these readings, Doctor.
Her neurotransmitter levels are three hundred percent above normal.
CRUSHER: If you remember, I found extremely high levels of
neurotransmitter residue in Alkar's mother.
PICARD: Could Deanna have picked up some kind of disease from her?
CRUSHER: I don't know. I need to do that autopsy. I don't care about
the customs of Alkar's people. I need to find out if there's a
connection between what killed Maylor and what's happening to Troi.
PICARD: Picard to Lieutenant Worf.
WORF [OC]: Worf here, Captain.
PICARD: Mister Worf, contact Ambassador Alkar. I need to speak with
him. 
OGAWA: Doctor, neural energy is now three hundred forty percent above
normal. 
WORF [OC]: Captain, Ambassador Alkar is at the negotiation table and
cannot be disturbed.
PICARD: Proceed with the autopsy. 
Medical log, stardate 46075.1. I have performed an
autopsy on Alkar's mother, but instead of answering our questions, the
results have created an even deeper mystery.

[Ready room]

CRUSHER: I don't have any explanation for this.
When I examined Maylor's body, I found her heart, her lungs, her
skeletal structure, most of the systems in her body were those of a
thirty year old.
PICARD: But how could that be? We both saw the woman.
CRUSHER: That's not all. I compared Maylor and Alkar's DNA. I don't
know who that woman was, but she was definitely not his mother.
Deanna's condition is deteriorating rapidly. She could die. There are
questions that only Alkar can answer.
PICARD: Picard to Lieutenant Worf.
WORF [OC]: Worf here, Captain.
PICARD: Meet me in Transporter room two. We're going down to the
surface.
WORF [OC]: Aye, sir.

[Conference chambers anteroom]

ALKAR: No, she wasn't my mother.
PICARD: And she wasn't ninety three years old.
ALKAR: Captain, did you perform an autopsy against my wishes?
PICARD: Yes, for a very good reason. Counsellor Deanna Troi is in
Sickbay, dying. Doctor Crusher doesn't know the cause of her condition,
but I believe you do.
LIVA: Alkar, we need you. The Rekags have withdrawn some of their
concessions and the Seronians are threatening to break off the talks.
ALKAR: I'll be right there.
LIVA: But 
(Liva leaves) 
ALKAR: They've been arguing for hours in there. It seems hopeless. But
now, when expectations are lowest, now is the moment I can be most
effective. If I'm focused, centred, free of disquieting thoughts, I can
turn these factions toward peace. 
PICARD: Alkar
ALKAR: Hear me out, Captain. It's important you understand. You see, I
discovered long ago I had the ability to channel my darker thoughts, my
unwanted emotions, to others, leaving me unencumbered.
PICARD: Is this what you've done to Counsellor Troi?
ALKAR: I hadn't planned it. I'd expected Maylor to live through the
negotiation. Her death could not have been more untimely.
PICARD: So then you deliberately used Deanna.
ALKAR: She's an empath. I was reasonably certain I could establish a
link with her. Frankly, I was amazed when I saw
how quickly she'd aged. Usually my receptacles survive for years.
PICARD: Receptacles?
ALKAR: Come now, Captain. Surely you can see there's a broader canvas
here. If I came to these peace talks hindered by unwanted emotions, the
Rekags and Seronians would be condemned to go on fighting 
PICARD: You cannot explain away a wantonly immoral act because you
think it is connected to some higher purpose.
ALKAR: Captain. do you know how many people have died on this planet in
the last forty eight hours? Thousands. Deanna Troi is just one
individual.
PICARD: That does not justify brutalising her, nor any of the others
you have used.
ALKAR: Ask the Seronian and Rekag children who go to bed each night in
fear of their lives. Captain, I get no payment, I have no power base,
no agenda. I am willing to risk my life simply to help others.
PICARD: Do you think that makes you appear courageous? Because you're
mistaken. You're a coward, Alkar. You exploit the innocent
because you're unwilling to shoulder the burdens of unpleasant
emotions. Well, this time you will be held accountable. I'm taking you
back to the Enterprise to release Counsellor Troi.
ALKAR: I have no intention of releasing her now or ever.
LIVA: Alkar, everything is falling apart. You have to come now.
ALKAR: If you'll excuse me, Captain. 
PICARD: Mister Worf. 
(Guards take Worf's phaser) 
ALKAR: I'm needed. 
LIVA: You and your Security Chief will leave.

