JANEWAY TROI LAFORGE JARTH RIKER ALKAR LIVA CRUSHER DATA
damaged run ve transfer try starfleet variance autopsy coddled

[Troi's office]

JANEWAY: (a woman) I know it must be my
imagination, but it seems as though Lieutenant Pinder just doesn't want
me in his section.
TROI: What makes you think that?
JANEWAY: He's so critical. I can't ever do anything to please him and I
try, Counsellor, I try to make sure there's nothing he could find fault
with.
TROI: Give me an example of what you mean.
JANEWAY: Well, yesterday I was running routine diagnostics on the
sensor pallets. They checked out, but Lieutenant Pinder questioned me
because I'd allowed a point oh two three variance. That's well within
specifications. He goes out of his way to criticise me.
TROI: Do you know of any reason why he might do that?
JANEWAY: No, that's why I'm here.
TROI: Well, maybe he's just tired of hearing you complain.
JANEWAY: Pardon me?
TROI: I know I'm certainly tired of it. How do you think it feels to
sit and listen to someone whine about themselves all the time?
JANEWAY: I didn't realise I was 
TROI: This isn't Starfleet Academy. You're not going to be coddled. If
you can't take it here, then you might think about a transport ship.
There's a lot less pressure there.
JANEWAY: But I love being on the Enterprise I don't want to be anywhere
else.
TROI: If you aren't up to it then you don't deserve to be here. Isn't
that right?
JANEWAY: I guess so.
TROI: So you'd better take a hold of yourself, or be prepared for a
transfer.
JANEWAY: I will, Counsellor. Thank you.
TROI: Glad I could help.

[Engineering]

LAFORGE: Yeah, here we go. Biofilter log on Sev
Maylor. 
CRUSHER: Geordi, could this log have been damaged in any way?
LAFORGE: I don't think so. Why do you ask?
CRUSHER: There's a discrepancy between the log and the tricorder
readings I took just three days later. The tricorder shows massive
physiological deterioration compared with her condition when she beamed
aboard. I find it hard to believe that so much damage could have
occurred in such a short period of time.
LAFORGE: Well I can run a diagnostic of the biofilter system and your
tricorder.
CRUSHER: Thanks. Of course, the best way to get the information I need
would be to do an autopsy.

[Ten Forward]

RIKER: Ambassador? We've received word from the
Seronian and the Rekag delegates. They've agreed to meet with you in
Darthen tomorrow.
ALKAR: Thank you, Commander. 
(Riker walks away, and Troi sashays into the room. Long tight low-cut
dress and streaked hair up.) 
DATA: Counsellor Troi has altered her appearance.
(She goes over to Alkar's table) 
TROI: Am I interrupting?
LIVA: Hello, Counsellor.
TROI: You want him. I can tell. But you have nothing to give him.
ALKAR: Deanna, could I talk to you in private.
TROI: And you. You're envious of him. You pretend to support him, but
secretly you want him to fail.
JARTH: That's not so.
ALKAR: Please, you must return to your quarters.
TROI: I won't. I want to be here, with you.
RIKER: Ambassador, the Counsellor and I are needed on the Bridge.
ALKAR: Of course, Commander.

