RIKER PICARD TROI ALKAR COMPUTER CRUSHER

[Alkar's quarters]

(Maylor is rigid on the floor) 
CRUSHER: Forty cc's inaprovaline.
RIKER: I'm sorry, Ambassador.
ALKAR: She was ill. I should never have brought her along. She was
ninety three. She'd lived a long life. I should be grateful for that. 
TROI: Alkar, is there anything I can do? 
ALKAR: Counsellor, there's a funeral meditation. Part of our rituals.
As an empath, you're the only person on board who could perform it with
me.
TROI: I'll be glad to help. 
(later - the room is darkened, and Alkar takes a pair of crystals from
a box) 
ALKAR: This meditation is one of our most sacred ceremonies. Hold the
stone like this. Rohm gah sevi rohm. Say after me. An end to grief.
TROI: An end to grief.
ALKAR: An end to pain.
TROI: An end to pain.
ALKAR: Strength comes from love.
TROI: Strength comes from love.
ALKAR: And courage from wisdom.
TROI: And courage from wisdom.
(Alkar moves his crystal towards Troi's, and it glows. When they touch,
both crystals glow, then just Troi's. Her eyes snap open in horror.) 
ALKAR: Thank you.

[Troi's quarters]

(Deanna checks herself in a mirror. Is that a
wrinkle? ) 
TROI: Computer today's appointment calendar.
COMPUTER: Oh nine hundred hours, counselling session with Ensign
Janeway. Ten hundred hours, counselling session with 
TROI: Cancel them. Cancel everything till after lunch.
COMPUTER: Acknowledged.

[Morgue]

(Maylor is laid out) 
PICARD: You wanted to see me, Doctor?
CRUSHER: Yes, Captain. I'm sorry to bother you, but I'm a little
concerned. I haven't been able to determine the cause of death. She was
elderly. and Alkar said she had been ill, but I found no evidence of
any disease. I did find abnormally high levels of neurotransmitter
residue in her cerebral cortex.
PICARD: What are you suggesting?
CRUSHER: I'd like to do an autopsy. I've already spoken to Alkar, and
he informs me that Lumerian custom forbids it. Could you speak with him?
PICARD: Do you suspect that her death poses some kind of threat to the
Enterprise?
CRUSHER: Well, no.
PICARD: Then we have no alternative but to concur with his wishes.

