TROI CREWMAN JARTH PICARD ENSIGN RIKER ALKAR LIVA
ma log talking won cease naturally agree conflict really

[Corridor]

CREWMAN: Sir. 
(Riker gets to Deanna's door. She's not in uniform) 
TROI: Will. 
RIKER: We were supposed to finish the crew evaluation reports.
TROI: Of course. Come in.

[Troi's quarters]

ENSIGN: Sir!
RIKER: As you were.
ENSIGN: Yes, sir. Thank you, sir. I was just leaving.
TROI: If there's anything else I need, I know where to find you. 
ENSIGN: Yes, ma'am.
(embarrassed toy boy rushes out) 
TROI: Are you bothered by his being here?
RIKER: Of course not.
TROI: Good. Because it's really none of your business.
RIKER: I know that. I believe we were with Lieutenant Fratis i n
molecular biology.
TROI: Why do I think you're upset?
RIKER: I don't know. Could we just continue with the evaluation?
TROI: Will, remember who you're talking to. You are bothered, I can
tell. 
RIKER: Deanna, I'm sorry I intruded. When you're ready to work, why
don't you give me a call. 
TROI: I will.

Captain's log, stardate 46073.6. We have arrived
without incident at Rekag-Seronia, where two members of Ambassador
Alkar's delegation have been waiting. They have joined us to report on
the situation in the capital city.

[Observation lounge]

JARTH: (a man) Things have deteriorated steadily.
Rekag sympathisers in outlying districts have attacked several towns.
PICARD: But I was under the impression there was a cease fire agreement.
JARTH: It was broken before it went into effect. A Rekag shuttle
strayed into Seronian space and was destroyed by fighter craft.
LIVA: (a woman) Naturally, the Rekags retaliated. There's been fighting
ever since.
ALKAR: If they would just sit down with me.
JARTH: The Rekags won't go into Seronian territory for talks. And the
Seronians won't go to Rekag. In the meantime, they fight.
PICARD: Ambassador, the situation sounds so volatile. Perhaps a cooling
off period? 
ALKAR: These people need an end to the fighting now. To delay a week,
even a few days, could cost thousands of lives.
PICARD: Then I would recommend that we ask both sides if they would
agree to meet in the city of Darthen.
LIVA: Why Darthen?
PICARD: It's a coastal city that has been neutral throughout the
conflict. Both Seronians and Rekag loyalists live there. It might be
acceptable as a compromise.
ALKAR: Contact the leaders. If they'll meet me in Darthen, I will join
them there tomorrow.

