PICARD [OC] RIKER JARTH WORF PICARD ALKAR LIVA CRUSHER
longer doing cause releasing connected isn receptacle friend choose

[Conference chambers anteroom]

ALKAR: No, she wasn't my mother.
PICARD: And she wasn't ninety three years old.
ALKAR: Captain, did you perform an autopsy against my wishes?
PICARD: Yes, for a very good reason. Counsellor Deanna Troi is in
Sickbay, dying. Doctor Crusher doesn't know the cause of her condition,
but I believe you do.
LIVA: Alkar, we need you. The Rekags have withdrawn some of their
concessions and the Seronians are threatening to break off the talks.
ALKAR: I'll be right there.
LIVA: But 
(Liva leaves) 
ALKAR: They've been arguing for hours in there. It seems hopeless. But
now, when expectations are lowest, now is the moment I can be most
effective. If I'm focused, centred, free of disquieting thoughts, I can
turn these factions toward peace. 
PICARD: Alkar
ALKAR: Hear me out, Captain. It's important you understand. You see, I
discovered long ago I had the ability to channel my darker thoughts, my
unwanted emotions, to others, leaving me unencumbered.
PICARD: Is this what you've done to Counsellor Troi?
ALKAR: I hadn't planned it. I'd expected Maylor to live through the
negotiation. Her death could not have been more untimely.
PICARD: So then you deliberately used Deanna.
ALKAR: She's an empath. I was reasonably certain I could establish a
link with her. Frankly, I was amazed when I saw
how quickly she'd aged. Usually my receptacles survive for years.
PICARD: Receptacles?
ALKAR: Come now, Captain. Surely you can see there's a broader canvas
here. If I came to these peace talks hindered by unwanted emotions, the
Rekags and Seronians would be condemned to go on fighting 
PICARD: You cannot explain away a wantonly immoral act because you
think it is connected to some higher purpose.
ALKAR: Captain. do you know how many people have died on this planet in
the last forty eight hours? Thousands. Deanna Troi is just one
individual.
PICARD: That does not justify brutalising her, nor any of the others
you have used.
ALKAR: Ask the Seronian and Rekag children who go to bed each night in
fear of their lives. Captain, I get no payment, I have no power base,
no agenda. I am willing to risk my life simply to help others.
PICARD: Do you think that makes you appear courageous? Because you're
mistaken. You're a coward, Alkar. You exploit the innocent
because you're unwilling to shoulder the burdens of unpleasant
emotions. Well, this time you will be held accountable. I'm taking you
back to the Enterprise to release Counsellor Troi.
ALKAR: I have no intention of releasing her now or ever.
LIVA: Alkar, everything is falling apart. You have to come now.
ALKAR: If you'll excuse me, Captain. 
PICARD: Mister Worf. 
(Guards take Worf's phaser) 
ALKAR: I'm needed. 
LIVA: You and your Security Chief will leave.

[Transporter room]

(Worf and Picard have just been beamed back) 
PICARD: Lock on to Alkar's signal. Bring him on board.
WORF: Captain, I am sure the Seronians have re-activated their security
field.
PICARD: Then work with Mister La Forge to find a way to break through
it. I want that man on this ship.
WORF: Aye, sir. 
PICARD: I'll be in Sickbay.

[Sickbay]

CRUSHER: If Alkar is flooding her with this psychic
waste, that would explain the high level of neurotransmitters.
All these negative emotions pouring into her have caused an abnormal
chemical response in her brain. 
RIKER: Isn't there something you can do to counteract it?
CRUSHER: Enzymic decontaminants will be able to reduce the level of the
neurotransmitters, but I can't make any headway unless Alkar stops what
he's doing.
PICARD: He has no intention of stopping. He feels perfectly justified
in using her until she dies.
CRUSHER: Then Deanna has to die. In order to save Deanna, Alkar has to
break his link with her. And the only he'll do that is if she's no
longer an adequate receptacle. When Maylor died, Alkar turned
immediately to Deanna.
PICARD: If Deanna dies, and he breaks the link with her, then he will
choose someone else, possibly someone from his own delegation.
RIKER: Wait a minute. You're talking about killing Deanna! 
CRUSHER: I'll be able to resuscitate her, Will, as long as it's not
more than thirty minutes. The big question is, will that be enough
time? Alkar has to establish a link with someone else before we revive
Deanna, or else he might turn back to her.
PICARD: We must bear in mind that we'll be putting his next victim at
risk. I want every possible security measure taken to protect that
person.
RIKER: How will you? 
CRUSHER: I'll give her a hypospray of dylamadon. It's the gentlest way.
PICARD: Proceed, Doctor.

[Conference chambers anteroom]

(the delegates are gathered together) 
ALKAR: Well, my friend, an era of conflict and bloodshed appears to be
over.
(Alkar staggers) 
LIVA: Alkar.
JARTH: What is it?
ALKAR: I'm fine. Just a little light-headed.
LIVA: You're exhausted.
JARTH: Do you want a doctor?
ALKAR: No of course not.
PICARD [OC]: Enterprise to Ambassador Alkar. Respond, sir.
ALKAR: I'm here, Captain.

