RIKER LAFORGE PICARD BARTEL [OC] SCOTT DATA RAGER
week begin thousand changed ye years mode bartel seen

[Jenolen]

SCOTT: The primary computer database should be
online now. Give it a try. 
LAFORGE: Okay. I've got three access lines to the central core. Still
nothing. 
SCOTT: Bunch of old, useless, garbage. 
LAFORGE: Huh? 
SCOTT: I say it's old, Mister La Forge. It can't handle the interface
of your power converter. This equipment was designed for a different
era. Now it's just a piece of junk. 
LAFORGE: I don't know. It seems like some of it's held together pretty
well. 
SCOTT: A century out of date. It's just obsolete. 
LAFORGE: Well you know, that's interesting because I was just thinking
that a lot of these systems haven't changed much in the last seventy
five years. This transporter is basically the same system we use on the
Enterprise. Subspace radio and sensors still operate under the same
basic principle. Impulse engine design hasn't changed much in the last
two hundred years. If it wasn't for all the structural damage, this
ship might still be in service today. 
SCOTT: Maybe so, but when they can build ships like your Enterprise,
who'd want to pilot an old bucket like this? 
LAFORGE: I don't know. If this ship were operational I bet she'd run
circles around the Enterprise at impulse speeds. Just because
something's old doesn't mean you throw it away. 
SCOTT: We used to have something called a dynamic mode converter. You
wouldn't have something like that on your Enterprise would you? 
LAFORGE: I haven't seen anything like that in a long time, but I bet I
might be able to come up with something similar. La Forge to
Enterprise.
La Forge to Enterprise, come in, please. 
SCOTT: Interference? 
LAFORGE: No, they're gone.

[Bridge]

DATA: We will enter the sun's photosphere in three
minutes. 
PICARD: Manoeuvring thrusters? 
RIKER: I've got thirty percent power. It won't be enough to stop us. 
PICARD: No, but it may be enough to turn us into orbit, hold our
distance from the photosphere. Ensign, port thrusters ahead full,
starboard thrusters back full. 
DATA: Our flight path is changing. Right ten point seven degrees, sir.
Insufficient to clear the photosphere. 
RIKER: Lieutenant Bartel, divert all power from auxiliary relay systems
to the manoeuvring thrusters. 
BARTEL [OC]: Aye, sir. 
RAGER: We're in orbit, Captain. Our altitude is one hundred fifty
thousand kilometres. 
RIKER: I'll see about getting main power back online. 
PICARD: Very well. Mister Data, begin a scan of the interior surface
for life forms. I want to know who brought us in here and why. 
DATA: Aye, sir.

[Jenolen]

LAFORGE: I can't find them anywhere in orbit. 
SCOTT: They could've crashed into the sphere like the Jenolen. 
LAFORGE: No, we'd be picking up background radiation if they'd gone
down. 
SCOTT: There's another possibility. They could be inside the sphere. 
LAFORGE: Maybe. Whatever happened, we've got to find them. If we can
get these engines back online, we could track them with their impulse
ion trail. 
SCOTT: Are ye daft? The main drive assembly's shot, the inducers are
melted, and the power couplings are wrecked. We'd need a week just to
get started. But we don't have a week, so there's no sense in crying
about it. Come on, We'll see what we can do with your power converter.

