RIKER LAFORGE WORF PICARD SCOTT DATA RAGER

[Bridge]

DATA: Commander, I believe I have found something
on the sphere which could be a communications device. There's an
antenna array approximately four hundred thousand kilometres south of
our present position. It is emitting low intensity subspace signals. 
RIKER: Can you open a channel? 
DATA: No, sir, not from our present orbit. The array is currently
directed away from us. 
RIKER: Ensign, prepare to put us in orbit above those coordinates.
Captain Picard to the Bridge, please.

[Transporter room]

LAFORGE: Are you feeling all right? 
SCOTT: Never get drunk unless you're willing to pay for it the next
day. I'll manage. 
LAFORGE: Okay. Energise.

[Bridge]

DATA: Sensors indicate that the large circle is a
portal or airlock, possibly leading to the interior of the sphere. 
RIKER: This looks like the front door. Should we ring the bell? 
PICARD: Mister Worf, open a channel to that communications array. 
WORF: Aye, sir. 
(there's a jolt, and Red alert goes off) 
DATA: Some type of tractor beam has locked onto us. 
RIKER: Helm, get us out of here! 
RAGER: We've lost main power. Auxiliary power down to twenty percent. 
(the viewscreen shows four beams pulling the Enterprise towards the
opening spacedoors) 
WORF: We're being pulled inside. 
RAGER: Auxiliary power failing. 
DATA: The resonance frequency of the tractor beams is incompatible with
our power systems. Warp and impulse engine relays have been overloaded.
I am attempting to compensate. 
(Enterprise is slung into inner space) 
RAGER: The tractor beams have released us, sir. 
RIKER: Hold position here until we can get our bearings. 
PICARD: Full sensor sweep, Mister Data. Where are we? 
DATA: Approximately ninety million kilometres from the star's
photosphere. I am reading a great deal of surface instability. It may
be 
RAGER: Sir! The inertial motion from the tractor beams is still
carrying us forward. Impulse engines are offline and I can't stop our
momentum. We're falling directly into the star.

