DATA SCOTT LAFORGE WORF PICARD
week gone power ships ion coming irc wrote happened

[Jenolen]

LAFORGE: I can't find them anywhere in orbit. 
SCOTT: They could've crashed into the sphere like the Jenolen. 
LAFORGE: No, we'd be picking up background radiation if they'd gone
down. 
SCOTT: There's another possibility. They could be inside the sphere. 
LAFORGE: Maybe. Whatever happened, we've got to find them. If we can
get these engines back online, we could track them with their impulse
ion trail. 
SCOTT: Are ye daft? The main drive assembly's shot, the inducers are
melted, and the power couplings are wrecked. We'd need a week just to
get started. But we don't have a week, so there's no sense in crying
about it. Come on, We'll see what we can do with your power converter.

[Bridge]

DATA: The sphere appears to be abandoned. Sensors
show that the star is extremely unstable. It is experiencing severe
bursts of radiation and matter expulsions. 
PICARD: Then that would explain why they abandoned it. But if there's
no one still living there, how were we brought inside? 
DATA: I believe we triggered a series of automatic piloting beams
designed to guide ships into the sphere. 
WORF: Sir, Sensors show a large magnetic disturbance on the star's
surface. 
DATA: It is a solar flare, Captain. Magnitude twelve, class B. 
PICARD: Shields? 
WORF: Shields are up, but only at twenty three percent. 
DATA: The star has entered a period of increased activity. Sensors
indicate that the solar flares will continue to grow. In three hours,
our shields will no longer be sufficient to protect us, sir.

[Jenolen]

SCOTT: Shunt the deuterium from the main cryo-pump
to the auxiliary tank. 
LAFORGE: The tank can't withstand that kind of pressure. 
SCOTT: Where'd you get that idea? 
LAFORGE: What do you mean, where did I get that idea? It's in the
impulse engine specifications. 
SCOTT: Regulation forty two slash fifteen, pressure variances on IRC
tank storage? 
LAFORGE: Yeah. 
SCOTT: Forget it. I wrote it. A good engineer is always a wee bit
conservative, at least on paper. Just bypass the secondary cut-off
valve and boost the flow. It'll work. 
LAFORGE: Okay. 
SCOTT: If we've done our jobs properly, the engines should be coming
back online about now. 
LAFORGE: Hey, you were right. The auxiliary tank is holding. 
SCOTT: Take the Bridge, Commander. 
LAFORGE: Oh, no, you're the senior officer here. 
SCOTT: I may be captain by rank, but I never wanted to be anything else
but an engineer. 
LAFORGE: All right.

