PICARD DATA LAFORGE WORF SCOTT

[Bridge]

DATA: The sphere appears to be abandoned. Sensors
show that the star is extremely unstable. It is experiencing severe
bursts of radiation and matter expulsions. 
PICARD: Then that would explain why they abandoned it. But if there's
no one still living there, how were we brought inside? 
DATA: I believe we triggered a series of automatic piloting beams
designed to guide ships into the sphere. 
WORF: Sir, Sensors show a large magnetic disturbance on the star's
surface. 
DATA: It is a solar flare, Captain. Magnitude twelve, class B. 
PICARD: Shields? 
WORF: Shields are up, but only at twenty three percent. 
DATA: The star has entered a period of increased activity. Sensors
indicate that the solar flares will continue to grow. In three hours,
our shields will no longer be sufficient to protect us, sir.

[Jenolen]

SCOTT: Shunt the deuterium from the main cryo-pump
to the auxiliary tank. 
LAFORGE: The tank can't withstand that kind of pressure. 
SCOTT: Where'd you get that idea? 
LAFORGE: What do you mean, where did I get that idea? It's in the
impulse engine specifications. 
SCOTT: Regulation forty two slash fifteen, pressure variances on IRC
tank storage? 
LAFORGE: Yeah. 
SCOTT: Forget it. I wrote it. A good engineer is always a wee bit
conservative, at least on paper. Just bypass the secondary cut-off
valve and boost the flow. It'll work. 
LAFORGE: Okay. 
SCOTT: If we've done our jobs properly, the engines should be coming
back online about now. 
LAFORGE: Hey, you were right. The auxiliary tank is holding. 
SCOTT: Take the Bridge, Commander. 
LAFORGE: Oh, no, you're the senior officer here. 
SCOTT: I may be captain by rank, but I never wanted to be anything else
but an engineer. 
LAFORGE: All right.

[Bridge]

(the Enterprise glows orange in close orbit of the
star) 
WORF: Shields still holding, sir, but they are down another fifteen
percent. 
PICARD: Mister Worf, can we use the phasers to open a hole in the
sphere? 
WORF: No, sir. The exterior shell is composed of carbon neutronium. Our
weapons would be ineffective. 
PICARD: Mister Data, we have to find some way out of here. Begin
scanning for another hatch or portal that might still be open. 
DATA: The interior surface area is over ten to the sixteenth square
kilometres. It will take seven hours to completely scan the surface. 
(big shudder) 
DATA: I will endeavour to speed up the process, sir.

