RIKER SCOTT LAFORGE

[Transporter room]

RIKER: We should probably get you to Sickbay.
Doctor Crusher will want to 
SCOTT: You've changed the resonator array. 
RIKER: Geordi, I think our guest is going to have a lot of engineering
questions. 
LAFORGE: Not to worry, Commander. I'll take care of him, sir. 
(Worf and Riker leave) 
SCOTT: What have you done with the duotronic enhancers? 
LAFORGE: Those were replaced with isolinear chips about forty years
ago. It's a lot more efficient now. That's an EPS power tap. 
SCOTT: Ah. 
LAFORGE: So, you were saying earlier that you were on your way to the
Norpin Colony when you had a warp engine failure?

[Corridor]

SCOTT: Aye, that's right. We had an overload in one
of the plasma transfer conduits. The Captain brought us out of warp and
we hit some gravimetric interference and then there it was, as big as
life. Is that a conduit interface? 
LAFORGE: Yeah, it is. You were saying its big as life. You mean the
Dyson Sphere? 
SCOTT: Aye, an actual Dyson Sphere. Can you imagine the engineering
skills needed to even design such a structure? 
LAFORGE: Yeah, it's pretty amazing. So, what happened when you first
approached it? 
SCOTT: Well, we began a standard survey of the surface, and we were
just completing the initial orbital scan when our aft power coils
suddenly exploded. The ship got caught in the sphere's gravity well and
down we went. Franklin and I were the only ones to survive the crash. 
LAFORGE: Can I ask you a question? What in the world made you think of
using the transporter pattern buffer to survive? 
SCOTT: Well, we didn't have enough supplies to wait for a rescue, so we
had to think of something. 
LAFORGE: Yeah, but locking it into a diagnostic cycle so that the
pattern wouldn't degrade, and then cross-connecting it phase inducers
to provide a regenerative power source, that's absolutely brilliant. 
SCOTT: I think it was only fifty percent brilliant. Franklin deserved
better. 
LAFORGE: I think you're going to enjoy the twenty fourth century,
Mister Scott. We've made some pretty incredible advances these last
eighty years. 
SCOTT: From what I've seen, you've got a fine ship, Mister La Forge. A
real beauty here. I must admit to being a bit overwhelmed. 
LAFORGE: Wait until you see the holodeck.

