PICARD CRUSHER SCOTT LAFORGE

[Corridor]

SCOTT: Aye, that's right. We had an overload in one
of the plasma transfer conduits. The Captain brought us out of warp and
we hit some gravimetric interference and then there it was, as big as
life. Is that a conduit interface? 
LAFORGE: Yeah, it is. You were saying its big as life. You mean the
Dyson Sphere? 
SCOTT: Aye, an actual Dyson Sphere. Can you imagine the engineering
skills needed to even design such a structure? 
LAFORGE: Yeah, it's pretty amazing. So, what happened when you first
approached it? 
SCOTT: Well, we began a standard survey of the surface, and we were
just completing the initial orbital scan when our aft power coils
suddenly exploded. The ship got caught in the sphere's gravity well and
down we went. Franklin and I were the only ones to survive the crash. 
LAFORGE: Can I ask you a question? What in the world made you think of
using the transporter pattern buffer to survive? 
SCOTT: Well, we didn't have enough supplies to wait for a rescue, so we
had to think of something. 
LAFORGE: Yeah, but locking it into a diagnostic cycle so that the
pattern wouldn't degrade, and then cross-connecting it phase inducers
to provide a regenerative power source, that's absolutely brilliant. 
SCOTT: I think it was only fifty percent brilliant. Franklin deserved
better. 
LAFORGE: I think you're going to enjoy the twenty fourth century,
Mister Scott. We've made some pretty incredible advances these last
eighty years. 
SCOTT: From what I've seen, you've got a fine ship, Mister La Forge. A
real beauty here. I must admit to being a bit overwhelmed. 
LAFORGE: Wait until you see the holodeck.

[Sickbay]

CRUSHER: You have a hairline fracture of the
humorous. It will ache for a few days, but it should be fine. 
SCOTT: Thank you. Well, I'll say this about your Enterprise. The
doctors are a fair sight prettier. 
PICARD: I'm Jean-Luc Picard. Welcome aboard the Enterprise, Captain
Scott. 
SCOTT: Thank you, sir, and call me Scotty. 
PICARD: How are you feeling? 
SCOTT: I don't know. How am I feeling? 
CRUSHER: Other than a couple of bumps and bruises, I'd say you feel
fine for a man of a hundred and forty seven. 
SCOTT: I don't feel a day over a hundred and twenty. 
PICARD: I must say, I was little surprised when Commander Riker told me
that you were aboard the Jenolen. Our records didn't show you listed as
a member of the crew. 
SCOTT: Well, I was never actually a member of the crew. I was just a
passenger. I was heading for Norpin Five to settle down and enjoy my
retirement. 
PICARD: I see. Well, I would very much enjoy the opportunity to hear
you talk about your career. I'm sure you would have some fascinating
insights into the events of your time. 
SCOTT: I'd be happy to. 
PICARD: Good. Well, I look forward to it. Excuse me. Commander, we need
to begin a full spectrographic analysis of the Dyson Sphere. 
LAFORGE: I'll get right on it, sir. 
PICARD: Good. Once again, welcome on board, Captain. 
SCOTT: Sir. 
LAFORGE: I need to get down to Engineering and begin that analysis. 
SCOTT: Engineering? I thought you'd never ask. 
CRUSHER: Captain, the first thing you need to get is some rest. Now
this has been a shock to your system, and I want you to not push
yourself. 
LAFORGE: We're pretty busy down there, anyway, Captain Scott. I promise
I'd be happy to give you a tour just as soon as the doctor says it's
okay. 
CRUSHER: I'll have someone show you your quarters. 
SCOTT: (disappointed) Aye.

