PICARD COMPUTER SCOTT
complete feel belong effect actually man care underpowered engineer

[Corridor]

(bottle and glass in hand, Scott walks carefully to
the holodeck) 
COMPUTER: Please enter programme. 
SCOTT: The android at the bar said you could show me my old ship. Let
me see it. 
COMPUTER: Insufficient data. Please specify parameters. 
SCOTT: The Enterprise. Show me the Bridge of the Enterprise, you
chattering piece of 
COMPUTER: There have been five Federation ships with that name. Please
specify by registry number. 
SCOTT: NCC One Seven Oh One. No bloody A, B, C, or D. 
COMPUTER: Programme complete. Enter when ready.

[NCC1701 Bridge]

(Complete with sound effect, they did a great job
of recreating it for us. The viewscreen has the ubiquitous orange
planet on it. Scott goes to his old station and pours a drink.) 
SCOTT: Here's to you, lads. 
PICARD: I hope I'm not interrupting. I was just coming off duty and I
wanted to see how you were doing. 
SCOTT: Not at all, not at all. Have a drink with me, Captain. 
PICARD: Thank you. 
SCOTT: I don't know what it is, exactly, but I would be real careful.
It's real 
(Picard knocks it back in one) 
PICARD: Aldebaran whiskey. Who do you think gave it to Guinan? 
SCOTT: Ah. 
PICARD: Constitution class. 
SCOTT: Aye. You're familiar with them? 
PICARD: There's one in the Fleet museum, but then of course, this is
your Enterprise? 
SCOTT: I actually served on two. This was the first. She was also the
first ship I ever served on as Chief Engineer. You know, I served
aboard eleven ships. Freighters, cruisers, starships, but this is the
only one I think of. The only one I miss. 
PICARD: The first ship I ever served aboard as Captain was called the
Stargazer. It was an overworked, underpowered vessel, always on the
verge of flying apart at the seams. In every measurable sense, my
Enterprise is far superior. But there are times when I would give
almost anything to command the Stargazer again. 
SCOTT: It's like the first time you fall in love. You don't ever love a
woman quite like that again. Well, to the Enterprise and the Stargazer.
Old girlfriends we'll never meet again. 
PICARD: What do you think of the Enterprise D? 
SCOTT: She's a beauty, with a good crew. 
PICARD: But? 
SCOTT: But. When I was here, I could tell you the speed that we were
traveling by the feel of the deckplates. But on your ship, I feel like
I'm just in the way. 
PICARD: Seventy five years is a long time. If you would care to study
some technical schematics or 
SCOTT: I'm not eighteen. I can't start out like a raw cadet. No, there
comes a time when a man finds that he can't fall in love again. He
knows that it's time to stop. I don't belong on your ship. I belong on
this one. This was my home. This is where I had a purpose. But it's not
real. It's just a computer generated fantasy. And I'm just an old man
who's trying to hide in it. Computer, shut this bloody thing off. It's
time I acted my age.

