RIKER LAFORGE WORF PICARD BARTEL [OC] SCOTT DATA RAGER
use leading oc years computer bartel starboard operate come

[Bridge]

DATA: Sensors indicate that the large circle is a
portal or airlock, possibly leading to the interior of the sphere. 
RIKER: This looks like the front door. Should we ring the bell? 
PICARD: Mister Worf, open a channel to that communications array. 
WORF: Aye, sir. 
(there's a jolt, and Red alert goes off) 
DATA: Some type of tractor beam has locked onto us. 
RIKER: Helm, get us out of here! 
RAGER: We've lost main power. Auxiliary power down to twenty percent. 
(the viewscreen shows four beams pulling the Enterprise towards the
opening spacedoors) 
WORF: We're being pulled inside. 
RAGER: Auxiliary power failing. 
DATA: The resonance frequency of the tractor beams is incompatible with
our power systems. Warp and impulse engine relays have been overloaded.
I am attempting to compensate. 
(Enterprise is slung into inner space) 
RAGER: The tractor beams have released us, sir. 
RIKER: Hold position here until we can get our bearings. 
PICARD: Full sensor sweep, Mister Data. Where are we? 
DATA: Approximately ninety million kilometres from the star's
photosphere. I am reading a great deal of surface instability. It may
be 
RAGER: Sir! The inertial motion from the tractor beams is still
carrying us forward. Impulse engines are offline and I can't stop our
momentum. We're falling directly into the star.

[Jenolen]

SCOTT: The primary computer database should be
online now. Give it a try. 
LAFORGE: Okay. I've got three access lines to the central core. Still
nothing. 
SCOTT: Bunch of old, useless, garbage. 
LAFORGE: Huh? 
SCOTT: I say it's old, Mister La Forge. It can't handle the interface
of your power converter. This equipment was designed for a different
era. Now it's just a piece of junk. 
LAFORGE: I don't know. It seems like some of it's held together pretty
well. 
SCOTT: A century out of date. It's just obsolete. 
LAFORGE: Well you know, that's interesting because I was just thinking
that a lot of these systems haven't changed much in the last seventy
five years. This transporter is basically the same system we use on the
Enterprise. Subspace radio and sensors still operate under the same
basic principle. Impulse engine design hasn't changed much in the last
two hundred years. If it wasn't for all the structural damage, this
ship might still be in service today. 
SCOTT: Maybe so, but when they can build ships like your Enterprise,
who'd want to pilot an old bucket like this? 
LAFORGE: I don't know. If this ship were operational I bet she'd run
circles around the Enterprise at impulse speeds. Just because
something's old doesn't mean you throw it away. 
SCOTT: We used to have something called a dynamic mode converter. You
wouldn't have something like that on your Enterprise would you? 
LAFORGE: I haven't seen anything like that in a long time, but I bet I
might be able to come up with something similar. La Forge to
Enterprise.
La Forge to Enterprise, come in, please. 
SCOTT: Interference? 
LAFORGE: No, they're gone.

[Bridge]

DATA: We will enter the sun's photosphere in three
minutes. 
PICARD: Manoeuvring thrusters? 
RIKER: I've got thirty percent power. It won't be enough to stop us. 
PICARD: No, but it may be enough to turn us into orbit, hold our
distance from the photosphere. Ensign, port thrusters ahead full,
starboard thrusters back full. 
DATA: Our flight path is changing. Right ten point seven degrees, sir.
Insufficient to clear the photosphere. 
RIKER: Lieutenant Bartel, divert all power from auxiliary relay systems
to the manoeuvring thrusters. 
BARTEL [OC]: Aye, sir. 
RAGER: We're in orbit, Captain. Our altitude is one hundred fifty
thousand kilometres. 
RIKER: I'll see about getting main power back online. 
PICARD: Very well. Mister Data, begin a scan of the interior surface
for life forms. I want to know who brought us in here and why. 
DATA: Aye, sir.

