PICARD KANE CRUSHER LAFORGE SCOTT
says guest disposal couple replicator promise prettier push dohlman

[Sickbay]

CRUSHER: You have a hairline fracture of the
humorous. It will ache for a few days, but it should be fine. 
SCOTT: Thank you. Well, I'll say this about your Enterprise. The
doctors are a fair sight prettier. 
PICARD: I'm Jean-Luc Picard. Welcome aboard the Enterprise, Captain
Scott. 
SCOTT: Thank you, sir, and call me Scotty. 
PICARD: How are you feeling? 
SCOTT: I don't know. How am I feeling? 
CRUSHER: Other than a couple of bumps and bruises, I'd say you feel
fine for a man of a hundred and forty seven. 
SCOTT: I don't feel a day over a hundred and twenty. 
PICARD: I must say, I was little surprised when Commander Riker told me
that you were aboard the Jenolen. Our records didn't show you listed as
a member of the crew. 
SCOTT: Well, I was never actually a member of the crew. I was just a
passenger. I was heading for Norpin Five to settle down and enjoy my
retirement. 
PICARD: I see. Well, I would very much enjoy the opportunity to hear
you talk about your career. I'm sure you would have some fascinating
insights into the events of your time. 
SCOTT: I'd be happy to. 
PICARD: Good. Well, I look forward to it. Excuse me. Commander, we need
to begin a full spectrographic analysis of the Dyson Sphere. 
LAFORGE: I'll get right on it, sir. 
PICARD: Good. Once again, welcome on board, Captain. 
SCOTT: Sir. 
LAFORGE: I need to get down to Engineering and begin that analysis. 
SCOTT: Engineering? I thought you'd never ask. 
CRUSHER: Captain, the first thing you need to get is some rest. Now
this has been a shock to your system, and I want you to not push
yourself. 
LAFORGE: We're pretty busy down there, anyway, Captain Scott. I promise
I'd be happy to give you a tour just as soon as the doctor says it's
okay. 
CRUSHER: I'll have someone show you your quarters. 
SCOTT: (disappointed) Aye.

[Scott's quarters]

KANE: This is the food replicator, and your
computer terminal. 
SCOTT: Good Lord, man, where have you put me? 
KANE: These are standard guest quarters, sir. I can try and find
something bigger if you want. 
SCOTT: Bigger? In my day, even an Admiral wouldn't have had such
quarters on a starship. You know, I remember a time we had to transport
the
 Dohlman of Elaas.
You never heard anyone whine and complain so much about quarters as she
did. 
KANE: The holodecks, Ten Forward, and the gymnasium are all at your
disposal. The computer can tell you how to find them. Until we issue
you a combadge, just use one of these panels if you need anything. 
SCOTT: You know, these quarters remind me of a hotel room on Argelius.
Oh, now there
is a planet. Everything a man wants right at his fingertips. Of course,
on the first visit, I got into a wee bit of trouble. 
KANE: Excuse me, sir but I have to return to duty. 
SCOTT: Oh. Well then. Thank you.

