RIKER LAFORGE WORF PICARD BARTEL [OC] SCOTT DATA RAGER
week gone ahead lieutenant impulse bartel insufficient come class

[Bridge]

DATA: We will enter the sun's photosphere in three
minutes. 
PICARD: Manoeuvring thrusters? 
RIKER: I've got thirty percent power. It won't be enough to stop us. 
PICARD: No, but it may be enough to turn us into orbit, hold our
distance from the photosphere. Ensign, port thrusters ahead full,
starboard thrusters back full. 
DATA: Our flight path is changing. Right ten point seven degrees, sir.
Insufficient to clear the photosphere. 
RIKER: Lieutenant Bartel, divert all power from auxiliary relay systems
to the manoeuvring thrusters. 
BARTEL [OC]: Aye, sir. 
RAGER: We're in orbit, Captain. Our altitude is one hundred fifty
thousand kilometres. 
RIKER: I'll see about getting main power back online. 
PICARD: Very well. Mister Data, begin a scan of the interior surface
for life forms. I want to know who brought us in here and why. 
DATA: Aye, sir.

[Jenolen]

LAFORGE: I can't find them anywhere in orbit. 
SCOTT: They could've crashed into the sphere like the Jenolen. 
LAFORGE: No, we'd be picking up background radiation if they'd gone
down. 
SCOTT: There's another possibility. They could be inside the sphere. 
LAFORGE: Maybe. Whatever happened, we've got to find them. If we can
get these engines back online, we could track them with their impulse
ion trail. 
SCOTT: Are ye daft? The main drive assembly's shot, the inducers are
melted, and the power couplings are wrecked. We'd need a week just to
get started. But we don't have a week, so there's no sense in crying
about it. Come on, We'll see what we can do with your power converter.

[Bridge]

DATA: The sphere appears to be abandoned. Sensors
show that the star is extremely unstable. It is experiencing severe
bursts of radiation and matter expulsions. 
PICARD: Then that would explain why they abandoned it. But if there's
no one still living there, how were we brought inside? 
DATA: I believe we triggered a series of automatic piloting beams
designed to guide ships into the sphere. 
WORF: Sir, Sensors show a large magnetic disturbance on the star's
surface. 
DATA: It is a solar flare, Captain. Magnitude twelve, class B. 
PICARD: Shields? 
WORF: Shields are up, but only at twenty three percent. 
DATA: The star has entered a period of increased activity. Sensors
indicate that the solar flares will continue to grow. In three hours,
our shields will no longer be sufficient to protect us, sir.

