BARTEL WAITER DATA LAFORGE SCOTT

[Engineering]

LAFORGE: Adjust the frequency stabilisation on the
main deflector dish. It's out of synch with the aft sensors. 
SCOTT: Laddie, you need to phase-lock the warp fields within three
percent or they'll become unstable. 
LAFORGE: What? 
SCOTT: Well look here. The warp field is 
(the computer rejects his commands) 
LAFORGE: We use a multiphase auto-containment field now. It's meant to
operate above three percent. 
SCOTT: Oh. Well, that would make the difference. 
BARTEL: We can re start the engines in ten minutes, Commander. 
LAFORGE: Thank you, Lieutenant. 
SCOTT: I remember a time when the old Enterprise was spiralling in
toward  Psi two
thousand. 
LAFORGE: Thank you. 
SCOTT: The Captain wanted to try a cold start of the warp engines. I
told him that without a proper phase lock it would take at least thirty
minutes You canna change the laws of physics, I told him, but he
wouldn't believe me, so I had to come up with a new engine start-up
routine. Do you know that your dilithium crystals are going to
fracture? 
LAFORGE: We recomposite the crystals while they're still inside the
articulation frame. Look, Mister Scott, I'd love to explain everything
to you, but the Captain wants this spectrographic analysis done by
thirteen hundred hours. 
SCOTT: Do you mind a little advice? Starfleet captains are like
children. They want everything right now and they want it their way,
but the secret is to give them only what they need, not what they want.

LAFORGE: Yeah, well I told the Captain I'd have this analysis done in
an hour. 
SCOTT: How long will it really take? 
LAFORGE: An hour. 
SCOTT: You didn't tell him how long it would really take, did you? 
LAFORGE: Of course I did. 
SCOTT: Oh, laddie, you've got a lot to learn if you want people to
think of you as a miracle worker. Now listen 
LAFORGE: Captain Scott. I've tried to be patient, I've tried to be
polite. But I've got a job to do here, and quite frankly, you're in the
way. 
SCOTT: I was driving starships while your great-grandfather was still
in diapers. I'd think you'd be a little grateful for a some help. I'll
leave ye to work, Mister La Forge.

[Ten Forward]

WAITER: May I help you, sir? 
SCOTT: Aye, lad. Scotch, neat. 
WAITER: There you go, sir. 
SCOTT: Thank you. 
(takes a drink) 
SCOTT: What in blazes is this? 
WAITER: Didn't you order Scotch? 
SCOTT: Laddie, I was drinking Scotch a hundred years before you were
born and I can tell you that whatever this is, it is definitely not
Scotch. 
DATA: I believe I may be of some assistance. Captain Scott is unaware
of the existence of synthehol. 
SCOTT: Synthehol? 
DATA: Yes, sir. It is an alcohol substitute now being served aboard
starships. It simulates the appearance, taste and smell of alcohol, but
the intoxicating affects can be easily dismissed. 
SCOTT: You're not quite human, are you? 
DATA: No, sir. I am an android. Lieutenant Commander Data. 
SCOTT: Synthetic Scotch, synthetic commanders. 
DATA: I believe Guinan does keep a limited supply of non-syntheholic
products. Perhaps one of them would be to your liking. 
(Data goes behind the bar and comes out with a bottle) 
SCOTT: What is it? 
DATA: It is (looks at bottle) It is (sniffs contents) 
It is
green. 
(Scott drinks) 
SCOTT: Ah! 
