PICARD DATA SCOTT LAFORGE WORF

[Bridge]

(the Enterprise glows orange in close orbit of the
star) 
WORF: Shields still holding, sir, but they are down another fifteen
percent. 
PICARD: Mister Worf, can we use the phasers to open a hole in the
sphere? 
WORF: No, sir. The exterior shell is composed of carbon neutronium. Our
weapons would be ineffective. 
PICARD: Mister Data, we have to find some way out of here. Begin
scanning for another hatch or portal that might still be open. 
DATA: The interior surface area is over ten to the sixteenth square
kilometres. It will take seven hours to completely scan the surface. 
(big shudder) 
DATA: I will endeavour to speed up the process, sir.

[Jenolen]

(outside the main sphere hatch, and looking at
short range scan 0407.7) 
SCOTT: The Enterprise ion trail leads right to this point. 
LAFORGE: It looks like some kind of doorway. 
SCOTT: I'll bet you two bottles of Scotch that they're inside the
sphere and that they went in right through that hatch. 
LAFORGE: No bet here. The question is how? 
SCOTT: Look at the momentum distribution of the ions. It would take an
impulse engine at full reverse to put out a signature like that. 
LAFORGE: So they didn't go in willingly. This looks like some kind of
communications array. 
SCOTT: Aye. We found hundreds of them when we did our initial survey
seventy five years ago. 
LAFORGE: Did you try hailing them? 
SCOTT: Aye. That was standard procedure at the time. We did it right
before we crashed. 
LAFORGE: Hailing is standard procedure today, too. Scotty, what if
those aren't communications arrays? What if they're access terminals
which are triggered by subspace signals on certain frequencies. 
SCOTT: Frequencies like our standard ship's hail. 
LAFORGE: Exactly. The Enterprise, when they saw that terminal, they
probably did the same thing you did seventy five years ago. Opened a
channel. Only this time they triggered something that activated that
hatch and pulled the ship inside the sphere. 
SCOTT: Very nice piece of reasoning, laddie. Nice indeed. 
LAFORGE: Yeah. We could probably trigger the hatch ourselves, only we'd
get pulled in like they were. 
SCOTT: Maybe all we need to do is to get our foot in the door. We might
not be pulled inside when the hatch opens if we keep our distance from
the sphere. Say, half million kilometres. Then when the hatch starts to
close, we move in and we use the Jenolen to jam the hatch open, hoping
that the Enterprise will escape. 
LAFORGE: You can't be serious. That hatch is huge. It'll crush this
ship like an egg. 
SCOTT: Geordi, the shields will hold. Don't worry about that. I can get
a few extra gigawatts out of these babies. 
LAFORGE: Scotty, it's crazy. 
SCOTT: Geordi. I have spent my whole life trying to figure out crazy
ways of doing things. I'm telling you, as one engineer to another, I
can do this. 
LAFORGE: All right. Let's do it.
(later) 
LAFORGE: We're at five hundred thousand kilometres. 
SCOTT: Engines are ready. 
LAFORGE: Okay. Here we go. 
(the four beams shoot out and start searching for something to lock on
to as the spacedoors open) 
LAFORGE: Come on. There's nothing out here. Give it up. 
(the beams cut out and the doors start to close again) 
LAFORGE: That's it. Let's go! Full impulse. 
(the Jenolen parks in the doorway, shields glistening as the spacedoors
press against them)

[Bridge]

WORF: Sir, there is an audio message from Commander
La Forge. 
LAFORGE [OC]: La Forge to Enterprise, do you read me? 
PICARD: Go ahead, Commander. We read you. 
