PICARD RIKER DATA WORF RAGER
kilometres life star impacted reported uss coming functioning viewscreen

  [Bridge]

(at the science stations) 
DATA: Captain, I have identified the signal. It is from the USS
Jenolen, a Federation transport ship reported missing in this sector
seventy five years ago. 
RIKER: Code one alpha zero. Ship in distress. 
PICARD: Take us out of warp, Ensign. All stop. 
RAGER: (a dark lady) Aye, sir. 
(the ship shakes) 
PICARD: Report. 
WORF: We have entered a massive gravitational field, Captain. 
DATA: There are no stars or other stellar bodies listed on our
navigational charts. However, sensors indicate the presence of an
extremely strong gravitational source in this vicinity. 
PICARD: Can you localise the source of the gravitational field? 
(viewscreen shows a dark grey sphere) 
RIKER: Sensors? 
DATA: I am having difficulty scanning the object. It appears to be
approximately two hundred million kilometres in diameter. 
RIKER: That's nearly as large as the Earth's orbit around the sun. 
PICARD: Why didn't we detect this before now? 
DATA: The object's enormous mass is causing a great deal of gravimetric
interference. That might have prevented our sensors from detecting it
before we dropped out of warp. 
PICARD: Mister Data, could this be a Dyson Sphere? 
DATA: The object does fit the general parameters of Dyson's theory. 
RIKER: A Dyson Sphere? 
PICARD: It's a very old theory, Number One. I'm not surprised that you
haven't heard of it. In the twentieth century, a physicist called
Freeman Dyson, postulated the theory that an enormous hollow sphere
could be constructed around a star. This would have the advantage of
harnessing all the radiant energy of that star. A population living on
the interior surface would have virtually inexhaustible sources of
power. 
RIKER: Are you saying you think there are people living in there? 
DATA: Possibly a great number of people, Commander. The interior
surface area of a sphere this size is the equivalent of more than two
hundred and fifty million class M planets. 
WORF: Sir, I have located the distress signal. It is coming from a
point in the northern hemisphere. 
PICARD: Ensign Rager, put us into synchronous orbit above that
position. 
RAGER: Aye, sir. 
(after a short while) 
DATA: I have located the Jenolen, sir. It is impacted on the surface of
the sphere. 
PICARD: Magnify. 
DATA: There are no life signs. However, there are several small power
emanations, and life support is still functioning on minimal levels. 
RIKER: Riker to Engineering. Geordi, join us in Transporter room three.
Mister Worf.

