RIKER SCOTT LAFORGE WORF

[Jenolen]

RIKER: This air's pretty stale. 
LAFORGE: Life support is barely operating. 
RIKER: See if you can increase the oxygen level. 
WORF: Aye, sir. 
LAFORGE: Commander. The transporter is still online. It's being fed
power from the auxiliary systems. 
RIKER: The rematerialisation subroutine has been disabled. 
LAFORGE: That's not all. The phase inducers are connected to the
emitter array. The override is completely gone and the
pattern buffer's been locked into a continuous diagnostic cycle. 
RIKER: This doesn't make any sense. Locking the unit in a diagnostic
mode just sends the matter array through the pattern buffer. Why would
anyone want to 
LAFORGE: There's a pattern in the buffer still. 
RIKER: It's completely intact. There's less than point zero zero three
percent signal degradation. How is that possible? 
LAFORGE: I don't know. I've never seen a transporter jury-rigged like
this. 
RIKER: Could someone survive inside a transporter buffer for seventy
five years? 
LAFORGE: I know a way to find out. 
(The portly, silver-haired, late middle-aged figure of a certain
starship chief engineer materialises. He is wearing a TOS movie era
uniform and his left arm in a sling) 
SCOTT: Thank you, lad. We've got to get Franklin out of there. 
LAFORGE: Someone else's pattern is still in the buffer? 
SCOTT: Aye, lad. Franklin. We went in together. Something's wrong. One
of the inducers has failed. Boost the gain on the matter stream. Come
on, Franklin. I know you're still in there. It's no use. His pattern's
degraded fifty three percent. He's gone. 
RIKER: I'm sorry. 
SCOTT: So am I. He was a good lad. 
RIKER: I'm Commander William Riker, starship Enterprise. Lieutenant
Commander Geordi La Forge. 
SCOTT: The Enterprise? I should have known. I bet Jim Kirk himself
hauled the old girl out of mothballs to come looking for me. Captain
Montgomery Scott. Tell me, how long have I been missing? 
RIKER: Well 
WORF: Sir. I have restored life support. The oxygen levels will return
to normal shortly. 
RIKER: Captain Scott, Lieutenant Worf. 
SCOTT: Lieutenant? 
WORF: Yes. 
RIKER: Captain, perhaps there are a few things we should talk about.

