TROI LAFORGE WORF PICARD SHIPLEY RIKER CRUSHER DATA

[Cargo bay]

(Data and La Forge enter) 
LAFORGE: Any progress with the analysis, Lieutenant? 
SHIPLEY: Take a look at this. 
(there's a glow in the middle of the bay, and the bit on the wall is
brighter too.) 
LAFORGE: Data, the tetryon emissions have intensified. They seem to be
focusing in this direction, coalescing here. They're reading as a point
of subspace energy. 
DATA: It appears to be the beginnings of a spatial rupture. 
LAFORGE: The tetryon emissions are modulating in a way that looks like
somebody's controlling the energy. You know, the signals from the
modifications I made to the sensor array, some of them dig pretty deep
into subspace. Maybe they caught somebody's attention. 
DATA: At the rate the rupture is expanding, we will soon be in danger
of hull breach. 
LAFORGE: Maybe we should try surrounding it with a subspace containment
field. 
[Bridge]

RIKER: Other than the tetryon emissions in cargo
bay four, our internal sensors haven't recorded anything unusual in the
past three days. 
PICARD: Initiate a metallurgical analysis of the ship's hull. Subspace
field incursions may have left a trace. 
WORF: Captain, sensors indicate that Lieutenant Hagler has returned to
the Enterprise. He is in his quarters, deck seven, section nineteen.

[Corridor]

(outside quarters 09-1947, Lt Hagler) 
CRUSHER: Computer, emergency entry, Chief Medical Officer Beverly
Crusher. 
(Hagler falls out into her arms) 
CRUSHER: Crusher to Sickbay. Get a plasma infusion unit to deck seven,
section nineteen. 
(Picard and Riker arrive) 
CRUSHER: His blood is turning into a liquid polymer.

[Observation lounge]

LAFORGE: We've set up a containment field in cargo
bay four, but the rupture just keeps expanding. I'd say we've got
another five or six hours before it breaches the hull. 
PICARD: Can we still beam the affected sections out into space? 
DATA: No, sir. The spatial rupture is creating severe nucleonic
interference. It is impossible to obtain a positive lock on the
bulkheads. 
PICARD: Has your analysis suggested any way in which we might seal this
rupture? 
LAFORGE: We think we can close the rupture by neutralising the tetryon
emissions with a coherent graviton pulse. But we'd have to do that at
the source. 
RIKER: How do we find the source? 
LAFORGE: Good question. The emissions are coming from a tertiary
subspace domain, but subspace has an infinite number of domains. It's
like a huge honeycomb with an endless number of cells. We need to
isolate the exact cell that these emissions are coming from. 
PICARD: If someone homed onto the subspace signals created by our
modified signal array, could we do the same to them? Track the tetryon
emissions to their universe? 
DATA: Tetryon particles have a random momentum. Our sensors cannot
track them, sir. 
WORF: Perhaps we could construct a homing device. Something that our
sensors could track. 
LAFORGE: That's a good idea, but there's no way to get that device to
the source. 
RIKER: Yes, there is. Give it to me. They've taken me for the last few
nights. If I'm right, the same thing'll happen tonight. 
LAFORGE: If you had a homing device, we could track it to your location
in subspace. And as soon as they send you back to the ship, we could
transmit the graviton pulse and neutralise the tetryon emissions. 
TROI: If they send him back. Ensign Rager still hasn't been returned. 
RIKER: They're going to take me whether I want to go or not. 
PICARD: Well, we could wait as long as possible for you to be returned,
Number One, but when the spatial ruptures begin to threaten the ship,
then we would have to transmit that graviton pulse. 
RIKER: Understood. 
PICARD: Perhaps there's a way that we could give you an advantage. A
way of keeping you conscious after they have taken you. Doctor, can you
develop some counter-agent to the neuro-sedative that they have been
giving the crew? 
CRUSHER: I could give you a neuro-stimulant, but the dosage would have
to be rather high
to counteract the effects. It could be risky. 
RIKER: I'm willing to take that risk. 
PICARD: Make it so. Mister La Forge, begin work on that homing device.

[Sickbay]

CRUSHER: This should be enough to ward off their
neuro-sedative for about twelve hours. 
RIKER: I hope it's enough. 
CRUSHER: It's going to have to be. I can't risk giving you a higher
dosage. 
LAFORGE: I've locked this tricorder into a continuous cycle. That way,
it'll keep recording whether you open it or not. Hopefully you can
bring back some information about their domain. We've modified a sensor
relay emitter to transmit a subspace beacon. When this indicator lights
up, it means that we've locked onto your location. 
(Geordi fastens the device to Riker's arm) 
RIKER: Understood.

[Riker's quarters]

(in uniform, Riker is lying on his bed when he
hears a click. Then a light like the one in the cargo bay comes through
the wall at him, and he is sucked through the hole to somewhere)

