TROI LAFORGE WORF PICARD RIKER CRUSHER DATA

[Observation lounge]

LAFORGE: We've set up a containment field in cargo
bay four, but the rupture just keeps expanding. I'd say we've got
another five or six hours before it breaches the hull. 
PICARD: Can we still beam the affected sections out into space? 
DATA: No, sir. The spatial rupture is creating severe nucleonic
interference. It is impossible to obtain a positive lock on the
bulkheads. 
PICARD: Has your analysis suggested any way in which we might seal this
rupture? 
LAFORGE: We think we can close the rupture by neutralising the tetryon
emissions with a coherent graviton pulse. But we'd have to do that at
the source. 
RIKER: How do we find the source? 
LAFORGE: Good question. The emissions are coming from a tertiary
subspace domain, but subspace has an infinite number of domains. It's
like a huge honeycomb with an endless number of cells. We need to
isolate the exact cell that these emissions are coming from. 
PICARD: If someone homed onto the subspace signals created by our
modified signal array, could we do the same to them? Track the tetryon
emissions to their universe? 
DATA: Tetryon particles have a random momentum. Our sensors cannot
track them, sir. 
WORF: Perhaps we could construct a homing device. Something that our
sensors could track. 
LAFORGE: That's a good idea, but there's no way to get that device to
the source. 
RIKER: Yes, there is. Give it to me. They've taken me for the last few
nights. If I'm right, the same thing'll happen tonight. 
LAFORGE: If you had a homing device, we could track it to your location
in subspace. And as soon as they send you back to the ship, we could
transmit the graviton pulse and neutralise the tetryon emissions. 
TROI: If they send him back. Ensign Rager still hasn't been returned. 
RIKER: They're going to take me whether I want to go or not. 
PICARD: Well, we could wait as long as possible for you to be returned,
Number One, but when the spatial ruptures begin to threaten the ship,
then we would have to transmit that graviton pulse. 
RIKER: Understood. 
PICARD: Perhaps there's a way that we could give you an advantage. A
way of keeping you conscious after they have taken you. Doctor, can you
develop some counter-agent to the neuro-sedative that they have been
giving the crew? 
CRUSHER: I could give you a neuro-stimulant, but the dosage would have
to be rather high
to counteract the effects. It could be risky. 
RIKER: I'm willing to take that risk. 
PICARD: Make it so. Mister La Forge, begin work on that homing device.

[Sickbay]

CRUSHER: This should be enough to ward off their
neuro-sedative for about twelve hours. 
RIKER: I hope it's enough. 
CRUSHER: It's going to have to be. I can't risk giving you a higher
dosage. 
LAFORGE: I've locked this tricorder into a continuous cycle. That way,
it'll keep recording whether you open it or not. Hopefully you can
bring back some information about their domain. We've modified a sensor
relay emitter to transmit a subspace beacon. When this indicator lights
up, it means that we've locked onto your location. 
(Geordi fastens the device to Riker's arm) 
RIKER: Understood.

[Riker's quarters]

(in uniform, Riker is lying on his bed when he
hears a click. Then a light like the one in the cargo bay comes through
the wall at him, and he is sucked through the hole to somewhere)

[Bridge]

WORF: Captain. Commander Riker has been taken from
the Enterprise. 
[Alien lab]

(Riker is on the metal table, wicked knife pointing
at his throat and clicking sounds from shrouded figures.
Rager is on another table, with her eyes staring and large tubes coming
out of an arm. One of the figures comes over and removes Riker's
phaser, leaving the restraint open.)

[Engineering]

PICARD: Mister La Forge, report. 
LAFORGE: I still can't locate the homing signal. We've covered the
entire upper subspace energy band. We're extending the scan to adjacent
levels. 
PICARD: Mister Data, your status? 
DATA [OC]: The rupture has expanded another four point two percent. 
