TROI LAFORGE SHIPLEY [OC] PICARD RIKER COMPUTER CRUSHER DATA RAGER
nights sterilise la explain soon deep fourteen wrong computer

[Cargo bay]

(Geordi is up a ladder, looking inside a panel) 
LAFORGE: Just before the grid alarm sounded, we were running warp power
through this junction. Somehow, it must've tripped the internal
scanners. 
RIKER: And it showed up as an EPS explosion? 
LAFORGE: Yes, but the question is, why? I've made modifications to the
sensors before but nothing like this has ever happened. 
(He comes down the ladder) 
RIKER: We can't waste time chasing down sensor ghosts. We should
probably keep the whole array offline until we can get take a closer
look. 
LAFORGE: (yawns) Excuse me. 
RIKER: I know the feeling. The past few nights, it seems like as soon
as my head hits the pillow, it's time to get up in the morning. 
LAFORGE: I'm sure we could all use a little shore leave after this
survey's completed. 
RIKER: Definitely. Keep me posted? 
LAFORGE: Yeah. Data, I'm wondering if you could give me a hand. I need
to run a structural integrity scan. I want to make sure that none of
the conduit was 
(Geordi sways) 
DATA: What is it? 
LAFORGE: This is the second time today that my visor's just cut out
like that. 
DATA: Are you all right, Geordi? 
LAFORGE: I don't know. I just had a very weird feeling. Maybe I should
go to Sickbay. 
DATA: I will run the integrity scan. 
LAFORGE: Thanks, Data.

[Sickbay]

CRUSHER: This is curious. There's a slight
bacterial infection around your neural inputs. It was probably
interrupting the data stream. 
LAFORGE: An infection? From what? 
CRUSHER: It doesn't match any bacterial strains on record. I'm going to
have to sterilise the area. But I need to run a resonance tissue scan
to search for any signs of additional infection. Come over here. Sit
down. Now, come forward. Now, you're going to need to hold very still.

[Cargo bay]

LAFORGE: How's the scan going, Data? 
DATA: I have just started the scan. Did you not go to Sickbay? 
LAFORGE: Data, I've been there for over an hour and a half. 
DATA: That is not possible. My internal chronometer indicates you have
been gone for exactly one minute, fifteen seconds. 
LAFORGE: I'm telling you, Data, I've been gone for over an hour. 
DATA: Computer, what is the time, please? 
COMPUTER: The time is fourteen twenty seven hours. 
DATA: You are correct. Ninety two minutes, seventeen seconds have
passed since you left the room. 
LAFORGE: What have you been doing all this time? 
DATA: I have no memory of events during that period. When we are
finished here, I will perform a self-diagnostic. 
LAFORGE: You know, first we picked up a false EPS explosion, then my
visor cuts out twice, and now you lose an hour, all in the Cargo Bay.
La Forge to Engineering I want a diagnostic team to Cargo bay four
immediately. 
SHIPLEY [OC]: On our way, sir.

[Bridge]

RIKER: Ensign Rager, cartography needs a better
position to study cluster FGC thirteen. Bring us about, heading one
twenty three mark four. 
RAGER: Aye sir. Helm won't lock to those coordinates, sir. 
RIKER: First time navigating through a globular cluster, Ensign? You
have got to compensate for gravimetric interference before 
(Riker sits at helm and stares at the edge of the console) 
RAGER: Is there something wrong, sir? 
RIKER: No. I don't know. Put us back on our original heading, Ensign.

[Cargo bay]

(Geordi is muttering at a console) 
LAFORGE: Don't tell me. This can't be right. Data, come here and take a
look at this, would you? I think we have another sensor glitch. 
DATA: Sensors are functioning normally. They are detecting a subspace
particle emission originating from within this room. 
LAFORGE: From within this room? That's impossible. 
DATA: The emission is emanating from this direction. Geordi. 
(something is going on at the panel Geordi was examining earlier) 
(a little later, Picard is there) 
DATA: The structure of the bulkhead has been altered on a subatomic
level. The metal itself is in a state of quasi-molecular flux. 
PICARD: What's causing it? 
LAFORGE: This is where it gets a little wild, Captain. Behind that
panel is a junction we were using to transfer
warp power to the sensor array. We're reading a subspace particle
stream emanating from that junction. 
DATA: It appears to be composed of spatially inverted tetryon
particles. We believe they are emanating from a tertiary subspace
manifold. 
PICARD: But I thought that tetryons were unstable in normal space. 
LAFORGE: We don't understand it either, sir. Something from that deep
in subspace shouldn't be able to exist in our universe. But there it
is. 
PICARD: Does it pose a danger to the ship? 
LAFORGE: Not unless it spreads. If it does, we can beam the bulkhead
into space and erect a forcefield in its place. 
PICARD: Well, keep that option ready. In the meantime, proceed with the
analysis. 
LAFORGE: Aye, sir.

[Ten Forward]

RIKER: When I sat down at the console, it triggered
a response like I had been trapped. I had to get out of there. 
TROI: Was it something about the console itself? 
RIKER: No. I felt like I was disconnected. Like it was something I had
dreamed. 
TROI: You're the third person today who's come to me with something
like this. An intense emotional response provoked by an object. 
RIKER: Did any of them know why they'd the response? 
TROI: No, they couldn't explain it any more than you could. You know,
at this point I'm not willing to say it's coincidence. 
RIKER: Maybe we should all get together. 
TROI: Talking about it would help you understand your response. I'm
going to find out if anyone else on the ship has had these kind of
experiences. 
