TROI MEDIC LAFORGE WORF PICARD SHIPLEY RIKER KAMINER COMPUTER CREWMAN [OC] CRUSHER DATA
head nights develop blade period somebody levels swing scissors

[Holodeck]

TROI: Well, you all remember a table, so let's
start with that. Computer show me a table. 
COMPUTER: There are five thousand forty seven classifications of tables
on file. Specify design parameters. 
TROI: Can you be more specific about the table? You mentioned it was
smooth and cold. Can you remember what shape it was? 
KAMINER: Long. It was long. 
LAFORGE: Yeah, and it had a rectangular shape. 
TROI: Computer, show me a rectangular conference table. 
LAFORGE: It's too high. Computer, reduce the height of the table by
twenty five percent. 
WORF: No, the table was smaller. And it was inclined. Computer,
decrease the table's surface area by twenty percent and incline the top
fifteen degrees. 
RIKER: No, it wasn't made of wood. It was smoother, more metallic. 
TROI: Computer, make this a metal table. 
(a sort of operating table appears) 
LAFORGE: Yeah, that's starting to look right. 
TROI: Was there anything else in the room? Furniture? Chairs? A door?
Other people? 
KAMINER: No, it was dark. 
RIKER: Yes, it was dark. I couldn't see beyond the table. 
TROI: Computer, lower the surrounding light level. 
LAFORGE: There was a light right in my face. A bright light. Computer,
give me a bright light right above the table. 
COMPUTER: Specify light source. 
LAFORGE: I couldn't tell. It was above me. An overhead lamp. 
COMPUTER: Estimated distance of light source. 
LAFORGE: I don't know. It was at least two or three metres above.
Brighter. Brighter. 
TROI: You said you were uneasy when you sat down at the conn. position.

RIKER: Yes. I felt trapped by the console. But it wasn't like this.
There was something else here. 
TROI: A restraint of some kind? 
RIKER: Yes, there was a restraint. It was flat and metal. It was made
of metal. it came down over my legs. No, no, it was across my chest,
right here. 
TROI: It was holding you down? 
RIKER: Yes, it was part of the table. It was here. It was right here. 
TROI: Computer, create a restraining arm attached to the right side of
the table, at the mid-point. 
TROI: Was it like that? 
RIKER: Computer, put controls on the restraining arm. A control panel.
Lights. 
KAMINER: There was something else there. Over the head of the table. A
metal swing arm. Computer, create a metal swing arm, double jointed,
total length one metre. Connect it to the head of the table. 
WORF: There was something attached to it. A tool of some sort.
Scissor-like. Computer, produce a pair of scissors attached to the
armature. The handle is wrong. It was not scissors. Computer, make the
handle a single grip ten centimetres long, solid metal. Now make one
blade longer, curved inward. And give the other blade a jagged edge. 
TROI: All right, you were lying on the table. You had a bright light
shining in your eyes. Were there any smells in the room? Were there any
sounds? 
RIKER: Yes. Yes, there was a sound. Computer, there were noises coming
from the darkness. Strange, like whispering. 
KAMINER: More like clicks. Clicking sounds. 
RIKER: Louder. Faster. More of them. 
LAFORGE: I've been in this room before. 
RIKER: We've all been here before. 
[Sickbay]

(a lot of examinations are going on) 
CRUSHER: Here it is again. Something has caused high levels of
serotonin to be produced in Geordi's visual cortex. When I examined him
earlier today, I thought it was the result of a bacterial infection,
but now I'm finding the same thing in all three. They all have elevated
levels of serotonin. It's concentrated in the hippocampus, which
suggests that they've been exposed to a neuro-sedative. And that's not
all. I have detected minute tetryon particle traces in their subdermal
tissues. 
PICARD: Tetryons? Like the emissions in the cargo bay. 
(Data enters) 
DATA: I have completed my self diagnostic, and have confirmed that I
was not aboard the Enterprise for ninety minutes seventeen seconds
yesterday afternoon. 
LAFORGE: Are you sure? 
DATA: Whenever I am on the ship, the warp field leaves an
electromagnetic signal on my internal servo-fluid system. Between the
period of twelve fifty four and fourteen twenty six hours that
signature is missing. 
PICARD: Computer, are there any members of the crew of the Enterprise
missing? 
COMPUTER: There are two crewmembers unaccounted for. 
PICARD: Identify them. 
COMPUTER: Lieutenant Edward Hagler and Ensign Sariel Rager. 
PICARD: When did they leave? 
COMPUTER: They have not been present since twenty three thirty two
hours. 
PICARD: How did they leave? 
COMPUTER: Method of departure unknown. 
PICARD: Picard to Bridge. 
CREWMAN [OC]: Bridge here, Captain. 
PICARD: Raise shields. And I want a level four security alert. I need
to know if anyone comes on or off this ship. 
CREWMAN [OC]: Aye, sir. 
PICARD: Mister La Forge, Mister Data. I believe that if we find the
source of those tetryon emissions, we'll find the missing crewmembers. 
LAFORGE: We're on it, sir. 
(Data and LaForge leave) 
MEDIC: Doctor Crusher? You'd better take a look at this. 
CRUSHER: My God. 
RIKER: What is it? 
CRUSHER: It looks as though your arm has been severed and then
reattached. 
RIKER: What? 
CRUSHER: The skeletal structure in your radius and ulna is offset by
point zero two microns. Your arm has been amputated then surgically
reattached.

[Cargo bay]

(Data and La Forge enter) 
LAFORGE: Any progress with the analysis, Lieutenant? 
SHIPLEY: Take a look at this. 
(there's a glow in the middle of the bay, and the bit on the wall is
brighter too.) 
LAFORGE: Data, the tetryon emissions have intensified. They seem to be
focusing in this direction, coalescing here. They're reading as a point
of subspace energy. 
DATA: It appears to be the beginnings of a spatial rupture. 
LAFORGE: The tetryon emissions are modulating in a way that looks like
somebody's controlling the energy. You know, the signals from the
modifications I made to the sensor array, some of them dig pretty deep
into subspace. Maybe they caught somebody's attention. 
DATA: At the rate the rupture is expanding, we will soon be in danger
of hull breach. 
LAFORGE: Maybe we should try surrounding it with a subspace containment
field. 
[Bridge]

RIKER: Other than the tetryon emissions in cargo
bay four, our internal sensors haven't recorded anything unusual in the
past three days. 
PICARD: Initiate a metallurgical analysis of the ship's hull. Subspace
field incursions may have left a trace. 
WORF: Captain, sensors indicate that Lieutenant Hagler has returned to
the Enterprise. He is in his quarters, deck seven, section nineteen.

[Corridor]

(outside quarters 09-1947, Lt Hagler) 
CRUSHER: Computer, emergency entry, Chief Medical Officer Beverly
Crusher. 
(Hagler falls out into her arms) 
CRUSHER: Crusher to Sickbay. Get a plasma infusion unit to deck seven,
section nineteen. 
(Picard and Riker arrive) 
CRUSHER: His blood is turning into a liquid polymer.

[Observation lounge]

LAFORGE: We've set up a containment field in cargo
bay four, but the rupture just keeps expanding. I'd say we've got
another five or six hours before it breaches the hull. 
PICARD: Can we still beam the affected sections out into space? 
DATA: No, sir. The spatial rupture is creating severe nucleonic
interference. It is impossible to obtain a positive lock on the
bulkheads. 
PICARD: Has your analysis suggested any way in which we might seal this
rupture? 
LAFORGE: We think we can close the rupture by neutralising the tetryon
emissions with a coherent graviton pulse. But we'd have to do that at
the source. 
RIKER: How do we find the source? 
LAFORGE: Good question. The emissions are coming from a tertiary
subspace domain, but subspace has an infinite number of domains. It's
like a huge honeycomb with an endless number of cells. We need to
isolate the exact cell that these emissions are coming from. 
PICARD: If someone homed onto the subspace signals created by our
modified signal array, could we do the same to them? Track the tetryon
emissions to their universe? 
DATA: Tetryon particles have a random momentum. Our sensors cannot
track them, sir. 
WORF: Perhaps we could construct a homing device. Something that our
sensors could track. 
LAFORGE: That's a good idea, but there's no way to get that device to
the source. 
RIKER: Yes, there is. Give it to me. They've taken me for the last few
nights. If I'm right, the same thing'll happen tonight. 
LAFORGE: If you had a homing device, we could track it to your location
in subspace. And as soon as they send you back to the ship, we could
transmit the graviton pulse and neutralise the tetryon emissions. 
TROI: If they send him back. Ensign Rager still hasn't been returned. 
RIKER: They're going to take me whether I want to go or not. 
PICARD: Well, we could wait as long as possible for you to be returned,
Number One, but when the spatial ruptures begin to threaten the ship,
then we would have to transmit that graviton pulse. 
RIKER: Understood. 
PICARD: Perhaps there's a way that we could give you an advantage. A
way of keeping you conscious after they have taken you. Doctor, can you
develop some counter-agent to the neuro-sedative that they have been
giving the crew? 
CRUSHER: I could give you a neuro-stimulant, but the dosage would have
to be rather high
to counteract the effects. It could be risky. 
RIKER: I'm willing to take that risk. 
PICARD: Make it so. Mister La Forge, begin work on that homing device.

