TROI LAFORGE WORF PICARD MEDIC RIKER KAMINER COMPUTER CREWMAN CRUSHER DATA RAGER

[Bridge]

RIKER: Ensign Rager, cartography needs a better
position to study cluster FGC thirteen. Bring us about, heading one
twenty three mark four. 
RAGER: Aye sir. Helm won't lock to those coordinates, sir. 
RIKER: First time navigating through a globular cluster, Ensign? You
have got to compensate for gravimetric interference before 
(Riker sits at helm and stares at the edge of the console) 
RAGER: Is there something wrong, sir? 
RIKER: No. I don't know. Put us back on our original heading, Ensign.

[Cargo bay]

(Geordi is muttering at a console) 
LAFORGE: Don't tell me. This can't be right. Data, come here and take a
look at this, would you? I think we have another sensor glitch. 
DATA: Sensors are functioning normally. They are detecting a subspace
particle emission originating from within this room. 
LAFORGE: From within this room? That's impossible. 
DATA: The emission is emanating from this direction. Geordi. 
(something is going on at the panel Geordi was examining earlier) 
(a little later, Picard is there) 
DATA: The structure of the bulkhead has been altered on a subatomic
level. The metal itself is in a state of quasi-molecular flux. 
PICARD: What's causing it? 
LAFORGE: This is where it gets a little wild, Captain. Behind that
panel is a junction we were using to transfer
warp power to the sensor array. We're reading a subspace particle
stream emanating from that junction. 
DATA: It appears to be composed of spatially inverted tetryon
particles. We believe they are emanating from a tertiary subspace
manifold. 
PICARD: But I thought that tetryons were unstable in normal space. 
LAFORGE: We don't understand it either, sir. Something from that deep
in subspace shouldn't be able to exist in our universe. But there it
is. 
PICARD: Does it pose a danger to the ship? 
LAFORGE: Not unless it spreads. If it does, we can beam the bulkhead
into space and erect a forcefield in its place. 
PICARD: Well, keep that option ready. In the meantime, proceed with the
analysis. 
LAFORGE: Aye, sir.

[Ten Forward]

RIKER: When I sat down at the console, it triggered
a response like I had been trapped. I had to get out of there. 
TROI: Was it something about the console itself? 
RIKER: No. I felt like I was disconnected. Like it was something I had
dreamed. 
TROI: You're the third person today who's come to me with something
like this. An intense emotional response provoked by an object. 
RIKER: Did any of them know why they'd the response? 
TROI: No, they couldn't explain it any more than you could. You know,
at this point I'm not willing to say it's coincidence. 
RIKER: Maybe we should all get together. 
TROI: Talking about it would help you understand your response. I'm
going to find out if anyone else on the ship has had these kind of
experiences. 
[Observation lounge]

TROI: Will, you told me you had an unusual
experience when you sat down at the console. Why don't you describe it?

RIKER: It was vague, the way you recall a dream. I remember the
sensation of feeling trapped and something about a smooth surface. 
WORF: I had a similar response, but to a pair of scissors. 
TROI: Have you dreamt about scissors recently? 
WORF: I may have. I do not have a distinct memory of it. 
LAFORGE: When my visor cut out in the cargo bay, I had a weird feeling
too. It was something about a smooth surface. It was smooth and cold,
Yeah, it was cold. 
KAMINER: (a civilian woman) Yes, cold. 
WORF: It was elevated? A platform. 
LAFORGE: Right. Like a bench, or a table 
TROI: It seems you've all had a similar experience. Is there anything
else you remember besides a table? 
RIKER: Maybe there's a way we can all help ourselves to remember more. 
[Holodeck]

TROI: Well, you all remember a table, so let's
start with that. Computer show me a table. 
COMPUTER: There are five thousand forty seven classifications of tables
on file. Specify design parameters. 
TROI: Can you be more specific about the table? You mentioned it was
smooth and cold. Can you remember what shape it was? 
KAMINER: Long. It was long. 
LAFORGE: Yeah, and it had a rectangular shape. 
TROI: Computer, show me a rectangular conference table. 
LAFORGE: It's too high. Computer, reduce the height of the table by
twenty five percent. 
WORF: No, the table was smaller. And it was inclined. Computer,
decrease the table's surface area by twenty percent and incline the top
fifteen degrees. 
RIKER: No, it wasn't made of wood. It was smoother, more metallic. 
TROI: Computer, make this a metal table. 
(a sort of operating table appears) 
LAFORGE: Yeah, that's starting to look right. 
TROI: Was there anything else in the room? Furniture? Chairs? A door?
Other people? 
KAMINER: No, it was dark. 
RIKER: Yes, it was dark. I couldn't see beyond the table. 
TROI: Computer, lower the surrounding light level. 
LAFORGE: There was a light right in my face. A bright light. Computer,
give me a bright light right above the table. 
COMPUTER: Specify light source. 
LAFORGE: I couldn't tell. It was above me. An overhead lamp. 
COMPUTER: Estimated distance of light source. 
LAFORGE: I don't know. It was at least two or three metres above.
Brighter. Brighter. 
TROI: You said you were uneasy when you sat down at the conn. position.

RIKER: Yes. I felt trapped by the console. But it wasn't like this.
There was something else here. 
TROI: A restraint of some kind? 
RIKER: Yes, there was a restraint. It was flat and metal. It was made
of metal. it came down over my legs. No, no, it was across my chest,
right here. 
TROI: It was holding you down? 
RIKER: Yes, it was part of the table. It was here. It was right here. 
TROI: Computer, create a restraining arm attached to the right side of
the table, at the mid-point. 
TROI: Was it like that? 
RIKER: Computer, put controls on the restraining arm. A control panel.
Lights. 
KAMINER: There was something else there. Over the head of the table. A
metal swing arm. Computer, create a metal swing arm, double jointed,
total length one metre. Connect it to the head of the table. 
WORF: There was something attached to it. A tool of some sort.
Scissor-like. Computer, produce a pair of scissors attached to the
armature. The handle is wrong. It was not scissors. Computer, make the
handle a single grip ten centimetres long, solid metal. Now make one
blade longer, curved inward. And give the other blade a jagged edge. 
TROI: All right, you were lying on the table. You had a bright light
shining in your eyes. Were there any smells in the room? Were there any
sounds? 
RIKER: Yes. Yes, there was a sound. Computer, there were noises coming
from the darkness. Strange, like whispering. 
KAMINER: More like clicks. Clicking sounds. 
RIKER: Louder. Faster. More of them. 
LAFORGE: I've been in this room before. 
RIKER: We've all been here before. 
[Sickbay]

(a lot of examinations are going on) 
CRUSHER: Here it is again. Something has caused high levels of
serotonin to be produced in Geordi's visual cortex. When I examined him
earlier today, I thought it was the result of a bacterial infection,
but now I'm finding the same thing in all three. They all have elevated
levels of serotonin. It's concentrated in the hippocampus, which
suggests that they've been exposed to a neuro-sedative. And that's not
all. I have detected minute tetryon particle traces in their subdermal
tissues. 
PICARD: Tetryons? Like the emissions in the cargo bay. 
(Data enters) 
DATA: I have completed my self diagnostic, and have confirmed that I
was not aboard the Enterprise for ninety minutes seventeen seconds
yesterday afternoon. 
LAFORGE: Are you sure? 
DATA: Whenever I am on the ship, the warp field leaves an
electromagnetic signal on my internal servo-fluid system. Between the
period of twelve fifty four and fourteen twenty six hours that
signature is missing. 
PICARD: Computer, are there any members of the crew of the Enterprise
missing? 
COMPUTER: There are two crewmembers unaccounted for. 
PICARD: Identify them. 
COMPUTER: Lieutenant Edward Hagler and Ensign Sariel Rager. 
PICARD: When did they leave? 
COMPUTER: They have not been present since twenty three thirty two
hours. 
PICARD: How did they leave? 
COMPUTER: Method of departure unknown. 
PICARD: Picard to Bridge. 
CREWMAN [OC]: Bridge here, Captain. 
PICARD: Raise shields. And I want a level four security alert. I need
to know if anyone comes on or off this ship. 
CREWMAN [OC]: Aye, sir. 
PICARD: Mister La Forge, Mister Data. I believe that if we find the
source of those tetryon emissions, we'll find the missing crewmembers. 
LAFORGE: We're on it, sir. 
(Data and LaForge leave) 
MEDIC: Doctor Crusher? You'd better take a look at this. 
CRUSHER: My God. 
RIKER: What is it? 
CRUSHER: It looks as though your arm has been severed and then
reattached. 
RIKER: What? 
CRUSHER: The skeletal structure in your radius and ulna is offset by
point zero two microns. Your arm has been amputated then surgically
reattached.

