TROI LAFORGE PICARD RIKER Q CRUSHER
saying stop warp commander amuck responsibility passing believe yes

[Observation lounge]

CRUSHER: She's a little shaken up, but she's going
to be. 
RIKER: You said she was adopted. Could she be an alien? 
CRUSHER: She's human. There's nothing more unusual about her, not that
my instruments can detect. 
PICARD: Commander, have you been able to determine the cause of the
warp breach? 
LAFORGE: No, sir. Everything was normal and then suddenly it's like the
laws of physics went right out the window. 
Q: And why shouldn't they? They're so inconvenient. 
PICARD: Q! 
Q: Mon Capitane. 
PICARD: Are you responsible for the incident in Engineering? 
Q: Of course. I needed to find out if what I suspected about the girl
were true. 
PICARD: That being? 
Q: That she's Q. 
TROI: Amanda's a Q? 
CRUSHER: How is that possible? Her parents, her biological parents,
were human. 
Q: Well, not exactly. They had assumed human form in order to visit
Earth, I suppose for amusement. But in vulgar human fashion they
proceeded to conceive a child. And then like mawkish humans, they
became attached to it. What is it about those squirming little infants
that you find so appealing? 
CRUSHER: I'm sure that's beyond your comprehension, Q. 
Q: I desperately hope so. 
TROI: What happened to Amanda's parents? 
Q: They died in an accident. None of us knew whether she had inherited
the capacities of the Q, but recently they've began to emerge, and as
an expert in humanity, I was sent to investigate. 
RIKER: You, an expert in humanity? 
Q: Not a very challenging field of study, I grant you. 
LAFORGE: Are you saying that you created a core breach just to test
this girl? 
TROI: What would have happened if she couldn't stop it? 
Q: Then I would've known she wasn't a Q. 
CRUSHER: And now that you know, what do you intend to do? 
Q: Instruct here. If that child does not learn how to control her
power, she may accidently destroy herself. Or all of you. Or perhaps
your entire galaxy. 
PICARD: I find it hard to believe that you're here to do us a favour. 
Q: You're quite right I wouldn't. But there are those in the Continuum
who have an over-exaggerated sense of responsibility. They think that
we need to take precautions to keep the little dear from running amuck.

CRUSHER: And once you've taught her, then you'll go away? 
Q: And leave her here? Of course not. She'll come back to the
Continuum, where she belongs. 
CRUSHER: Wait a minute. You can't just come in here and take her away
from everything she's ever known. 
Q: I assure you I can. 
CRUSHER: She has plans for herself. She wants to have a career and a
family. 
Q: I'm rescuing her from that miserable existence. 
CRUSHER: That miserable existence is all she's known for the last
eighteen years. You have no right to take it away from her. 
Q: Mon Capitane, I really think that we need to speak privately. 
(so Q and Picard vanish) 
[Ready room]

Q: Well, there, that's better. Crusher gets more
shrill with each passing year. 
PICARD: Q, what is it you really want? 
Q: Well, since you know so much about the Q, I thought you'd the
perfect person to introduce me to the child. Let her know she can trust
me. 
PICARD: I don't trust you, Q. Why should I expect Amanda to? 
Q: Well she'd better, because I'm all she's got. She needs me to help
her prepare for her future with the Q. 
PICARD: But what if she doesn't want that future? It must be her
decision. 
Q: Oh, yes, yes, yes. Do you think she'll want to remain an enfeebled
mortal? 
PICARD: But if she really is Q, she must understand what that means.
Very well, I will introduce you. But we cannot argue like this in front
of her. We must at least appear to be 
Q: Pals? 
PICARD: Civil. 
Q: I knew I could count on you, Jean-Luc.

