TROI WOMAN PICARD RIKER Q CRUSHER AMANDA
ladies protect crucial fronts does storm time modification er

[Amanda's quarters]

Q: Now do you understand? What do humans have to
offer you that even begins to compare with that? Your future contains
wonders you can't even imagine. The universe could be your playground. 
(doorbell) 
AMANDA: Doctor Crusher and Counsellor Troi. They're taking me to
dinner. 
Q: You don't have to eat, you know. It's a nasty human habit you could
easily do without. 
(Q vanishes and Amanda opens the door) 
CRUSHER: Hello, Amanda. Are you ready? 
AMANDA: Yes.

[Ten Forward]

(Amanda has barely touched her food) 
TROI: Well, Amanda, how are you feeling about all this now? It must be
overwhelming. 
AMANDA: It was at first, but actually now I'm enjoying myself. 
RIKER: Hello, ladies. 
TROI: Hello, Will. 
AMANDA: Commander Riker. Er, won't you join us? 
RIKER: I'd love, to but I have other plans. 
(He joins a woman at another table right in front of Amanda) 
RIKER: Hi. 
WOMAN: Hi. 
CRUSHER: So, how are your lessons going? Is Q being patient with you?
Amanda? 
(Amanda and Riker vanish)

[Gazebo]

(Both are in Regency clothing) 
RIKER: What is this all about? 
AMANDA: I thought it might be nice to spend some time alone together. 
RIKER: I think it would be nice if you took us back to Ten Forward. 
AMANDA: Are you sure you wouldn't want to stay here with me for a
while? The moonlight is so beautiful. Isn't it nicer here than at Ten
Forward? 
RIKER: Yes, it's very pleasant, but that's not the point. 
AMANDA: Oh? I think it is. 
(She puts her arms around his neck) 
RIKER: No. You can't just snatch people and put them in your fantasies
and expect them to respond. 
AMANDA: Don't you like me? Even just a little bit? 
RIKER: You're a very lovely young lady. But none of this is real. 
AMANDA: My feelings are real. 
RIKER: I know. But you can't make someone love you. 
AMANDA: Can't I? 
(and with a small gesture) 
RIKER: Oh, Amanda. You are so beautiful. 
(he kisses her neck) 
AMANDA: Do you love me? 
RIKER: More than anything. 
AMANDA: You're right. None of this is real. I thought it would be
romantic, but it's empty. 
RIKER: Amanda. 
AMANDA: Just go back to Ten Forward.

[Ready room]

Q: Bon jour, mon Capitane. You wanted to talk with
me? 
PICARD: I wanted to ask you about Amanda's biological parents. When
they decided to remain on Earth, what was the reaction in the Q
Continuum? 
Q: We found it incomprehensible. 
PICARD: Were they pressured to return? Were they threatened with any
punishment if they didn't? 
Q: What are you driving at, Picard? 
PICARD: Well, the circumstance of their death's quite odd. A tornado
somehow escaped the weather modification net and touched down in only
one spot. Amanda's home. 
Q: Well, you never can predict the weather. 
PICARD: But tornadoes develop from existing storm fronts. But you see,
there were no storm fronts in Kansas that day. Witnesses reported that
the funnel materialised spontaneously directly over Amanda's home,
destroyed it, and disappeared. 
Q: If you say so. I wasn't there. 
PICARD: Were Amanda's parents executed by the Q Continuum? 
Q: And what if they were? 
PICARD: Then I think she has a right to know that before she makes a
choice about her future. 
Q: Don't be foolish, Picard. She has no choice. She never did. If she's
truly Q, then she must return to the Continuum where she belongs. But
if she were some kind of hybrid, neither human nor Q, then (a gesture) 
PICARD: You would be so despicable? 
Q: Don't be naive. You have no idea what it means to be Q. With
unlimited power comes responsibility. Do you think it is reasonable for
us to allow omnipotent beings to roam free through the universe? 
PICARD: So what have you concluded? Does she live or does she die? 
Q: I haven't decided yet.

Captain's log, stardate 46193.8. We have arrived at
Tagra Four and have begun delivering supplies. In the meantime, I am
faced with a crisis of a different nature.

[Observation lounge]

PICARD: Look, I have no reason to believe that Q is
lying. He claims he has orders from the Continuum. If Amanda cannot
prove that she is fully Q, then he must kill her. 
TROI: We have to tell her. 
CRUSHER: I don't know if we should. It almost seems cruel. 
TROI: Maybe she can protect herself. After all, she has a great deal of
power. 
CRUSHER: So did her parents. It didn't save them. 
PICARD: I agree with the Counsellor. Amanda deserves to know the truth
of her situation. We have no right to withhold such crucial information
from her. But it isn't going to be easy telling her.

