RIKER PICARD Q CRUSHER DATA AMANDA LOTE

[Medical lab]

AMANDA: Wait for it to be metabolised. Add another
twenty? Wait for it to be metabolised over and over, and then wait till
the bacilli can't be absorbed any more. 
CRUSHER: That's right. Just be sure and record the rate of mitosis from
each of the dishes. 
AMANDA: Mitosis, right. 
CRUSHER: You seem distracted. 
AMANDA: Well, I just saw my parents. My real parents. Q showed me how.
Can you imagine how that felt? 
CRUSHER: No, I don't think I can. 
AMANDA: You know, you were right. I can't ignore what's happened to me.
I just don't know if I can cope with it. 
CRUSHER: Amanda, you are stronger than you think. 
AMANDA: You know, when I saw them there, right in front of me, I
realised that I caused this to happen. I wanted to see them and I did.
If it were you, if suddenly you could have anything you wanted, what
would it be? 
CRUSHER: I have no idea. 
AMANDA: No, think about it. Really think. If suddenly you could make
anything happen, what would it be? 
CRUSHER: Well, I would probably want to heal people. People who are
hopelessly ill. 
AMANDA: Would you bring your husband back? 
CRUSHER: Amanda, I don't know. And I don't think I could make a
decision like that until I was actually faced with it. 
AMANDA: I am faced with it. 
CRUSHER: Try to do the work. I'll come back and check on you later. 
(Crusher leaves) 
Q: I thought she'd never leave. 
AMANDA: I don't know if I'll ever get used to that. 
Q: It's time for another lesson. 
AMANDA: Well, I have to finish this experiment first. 
Q: What are you doing? 
AMANDA: We're delivering live vaccine bacilli to Tagra. I'm supposed to
find the best nutrient solution so we can keep them living while
they're in stasis. 
Q: Fascinating. I've just had a splendid idea. Why don't we combine
what you're doing with our lesson, and we'll show you how to finish in
no time. 
AMANDA: Well, I think that I should finish it the way Doctor Crusher
showed me. 
Q: Why? I'm sure she'll be delighted if we sped things along. Think
what it would mean. You could double, even triple the work load. 
AMANDA: Well. 
Q: Good. 
AMANDA: I guess so. 
Q: Now, as you take a look at the tissue samples, form an image in your
mind.

[Bridge]

PICARD: Number One Doctor Crusher has some live
vaccine bacilli to be delivered to Tagra. It'll have to be shipped in a
stasis field. Will you make the arrangements? 
RIKER: I'll get right on it. 
DATA: Captain, message coming in from Tagra Four. 
PICARD: On screen. 
LOTE [on viewscreen]: Enterprise, I am Orn Lote, engineer. We are
having difficulties with the reactor that
powers the barystatic filters on our southern continent. We may have to
shut it down for repairs. 
PICARD: Perhaps my Chief Engineer could be of assistance? 
LOTE [on viewscreen]: I hope so. If we are forced to disable the
reactor, it would take months to re-establish the ionic currents the
filters have formed in the atmosphere. 
PICARD: Send us your design specifications I'm sure we'll be able to
help. 
LOTE [on viewscreen]: Thank you, Captain. 
(transmission ends) 
DATA: Captain? 
PICARD: What is it, Mister Data? 
DATA: I have some information regarding Amanda Rogers' parents. Records
indicate that they died in Topeka, Kansas.
Their home was destroyed during a tornado. 
PICARD: A tornado? Why wasn't it dissipated by the weather modification
net? 
DATA: Unknown, sir. The bodies were found in the rubble after the storm
had passed. 
PICARD: See if you can find out any more details, Mister Data. I'd like
to know more about that storm. 
DATA: Aye, sir.

