RIKER CRUSHER AMANDA LAFORGE MEDIC [OC]
bilaren loading tricorder child hand adoptive didn emissions fall

[Medical lab]

(Beverly is demonstrating a tricorder by using it
on Amanda) 
CRUSHER: See all these readouts? That's your heart rate, your blood
pressure all your vital signs. You're in good shape. You might just
live to be my age. 
CRUSHER: Now, all these tricorders need to be tested before they get
put in the supply containers that we're taking to Tagra. 
AMANDA: So I should scan myself with each one to make sure all the
readouts are working? 
CRUSHER: Any unit that doesn't, put it aside and we'll do a diagnostic
on it later. 
AMANDA: Okay. 
CRUSHER: I hear you've been accepted to the Academy. I have a son
there. 
AMANDA: Oh. Being posted on the Enterprise, I guess you don't get to
see him very often? 
CRUSHER: No, not as often as I'd like. 
AMANDA: Do you have any other children? 
CRUSHER: My husband died a number of years ago. Wes was our only child.

AMANDA: Was he old enough to know his father? 
CRUSHER: Jack died when he was five. 
AMANDA: My parents died when I was a baby too. I don't remember
anything about them. Sometimes I wonder what they were like. 
CRUSHER: Your adoptive parents are in Starfleet, aren't they? 
AMANDA: Yeah, they're marine biologists. They've just been posted to
the Bilaren system. 
MEDIC [OC]: Sickbay to Doctor Crusher. You wanted to be told when the
cultures were ready. 
CRUSHER: On my way. When you've finished with the tricorders, Nurse
Ogawa can help you take them down to shuttlebay for loading. 
AMANDA: Okay.

[Shuttlebay two]

(Amanda arrives carrying two suitcases) 
LAFORGE: Oh, thank you very much for your help. We can use every
available hand we can get. This is one of the largest relief efforts
we've ever mounted. 
AMANDA: Now why are you bringing everything down in shuttlecraft? 
LAFORGE: Well, because we can't use the transporters for all of the
ionisation in the Tagran atmosphere. 
AMANDA: From the barystatic filters? 
LAFORGE: How did you know that? 
AMANDA: I did a paper on eco-regeneration. 
LAFORGE: Well then, you know that a thousand barystatic filters puts
out quite a bit of ionisation. 
AMANDA: A thousand? 
LAFORGE: Yeah, they've managed to pollute their atmosphere pretty
badly. 
AMANDA: It's amazing to think that they go to such lengths to clean the
air instead of regulating the emissions that cause the problem. 
LAFORGE: You're right. Actually, the only thing the filters can do is
keep things from getting worse. 
(Amanda looks over to Riker, and sees a container fall from the level
above him. With a gesture, she diverts its fall so it misses him) 
LAFORGE: They shoot the air full of 
(crash) 
LAFORGE: Commander, are you all right? You okay? 
RIKER: I didn't even see it coming. 
