AMANDA RIKER DATA LAFORGE
imagination area energy yeah access thing carrying let fall

[Shuttlebay two]

(Amanda arrives carrying two suitcases) 
LAFORGE: Oh, thank you very much for your help. We can use every
available hand we can get. This is one of the largest relief efforts
we've ever mounted. 
AMANDA: Now why are you bringing everything down in shuttlecraft? 
LAFORGE: Well, because we can't use the transporters for all of the
ionisation in the Tagran atmosphere. 
AMANDA: From the barystatic filters? 
LAFORGE: How did you know that? 
AMANDA: I did a paper on eco-regeneration. 
LAFORGE: Well then, you know that a thousand barystatic filters puts
out quite a bit of ionisation. 
AMANDA: A thousand? 
LAFORGE: Yeah, they've managed to pollute their atmosphere pretty
badly. 
AMANDA: It's amazing to think that they go to such lengths to clean the
air instead of regulating the emissions that cause the problem. 
LAFORGE: You're right. Actually, the only thing the filters can do is
keep things from getting worse. 
(Amanda looks over to Riker, and sees a container fall from the level
above him. With a gesture, she diverts its fall so it misses him) 
LAFORGE: They shoot the air full of 
(crash) 
LAFORGE: Commander, are you all right? You okay? 
RIKER: I didn't even see it coming. 
[Engineering]

LAFORGE: this is the main control area. We can
access any of the primary circuits from all of these panels. Over here
is a Jeffries tube. 
AMANDA: Where most of the major conduits are routed. 
LAFORGE: You've been doing your homework. 
AMANDA: It's hard to imagine how much energy is being harnessed in
there. 
DATA: Imagination is not necessary. The scale is readily quantifiable.
We are presently generating twelve point seven five billion gigawatts
per 
(an alarm goes off) 
DATA: Temperature in the reaction chamber has increased by forty seven
percent. 
LAFORGE: Injector couplings are frozen. I can't slow down the reaction.

DATA: Temperature increase is at one hundred six percent and rising. 
LAFORGE: La Forge to Bridge! We're looking at a core breach! We're
going to have to try and vent the plasma! 
DATA: Plasma inductors are not responding. 
LAFORGE: We're going to lose containment. All right, everybody out of
here now. Let's go! Let's move it! Data, bring down the isolation door.
We're going to have to eject the warp core. 
(the chamber explodes, but Amanda holds out her hands and pushes the
reaction back inside and seals it again) 
DATA: Temperature in the reaction chamber has returned to normal.

