Q CRUSHER AMANDA
eyes people dreamed medical delivering way close happened wait

[Amanda's quarters]

(Q starts to walk through her door, then thinks
better of it and rings the doorbell) 
AMANDA: Come in. 
Q: Hello, my dear. I've been told I behaved badly. I apologise.
Apparently you had every reason to chastise me. But, then again, what's
done is done. Right? 
AMANDA: I'd like to ask you some questions. 
Q: Anything. 
AMANDA: What exactly are the Q? 
Q: It would be so much easier to show you than to tell you. If you
would agree to take a short visit to the Continuum 
AMANDA: No, just tell me. 
Q: Well. to put it simply, we're omnipotent. There's nothing, nothing
we can't do. 
AMANDA: And what do you do with this power? 
Q: Anything we want. 
AMANDA: Do you use it to help others? 
Q: I think you've missed the point, my dear. Clearly, you've spent far
too much time with humans. As a Q, you can have your heart's desire,
instantly, whatever that may be. Would you like precious jewels? Works
of art? Would you like to walk along the rings of Tautine? 
AMANDA: I'm not interested in any of those things. 
Q: Of course not. You're a Q. But surely there must be something that
you want? Something that you never dreamed was possible. Tell me,
Amanda. What is it? 
AMANDA: I'd like to know what my parents looked like. My real parents. 
Q: How quaint. So do it. 
AMANDA: What do you mean? 
Q: Summon the image. 
AMANDA: I don't know how. 
Q: Think about them. Evoke the memory. You can do it, Amanda. Trust me.
Close your eyes. Close your eyes. In your mind, return to the time when
you were an infant. Think about your parents. Remember them. Good.
Good. Now, open your eyes. 
(there is a young couple with a baby sitting in front of her) 
AMANDA: They loved me. 
[Medical lab]

AMANDA: Wait for it to be metabolised. Add another
twenty? Wait for it to be metabolised over and over, and then wait till
the bacilli can't be absorbed any more. 
CRUSHER: That's right. Just be sure and record the rate of mitosis from
each of the dishes. 
AMANDA: Mitosis, right. 
CRUSHER: You seem distracted. 
AMANDA: Well, I just saw my parents. My real parents. Q showed me how.
Can you imagine how that felt? 
CRUSHER: No, I don't think I can. 
AMANDA: You know, you were right. I can't ignore what's happened to me.
I just don't know if I can cope with it. 
CRUSHER: Amanda, you are stronger than you think. 
AMANDA: You know, when I saw them there, right in front of me, I
realised that I caused this to happen. I wanted to see them and I did.
If it were you, if suddenly you could have anything you wanted, what
would it be? 
CRUSHER: I have no idea. 
AMANDA: No, think about it. Really think. If suddenly you could make
anything happen, what would it be? 
CRUSHER: Well, I would probably want to heal people. People who are
hopelessly ill. 
AMANDA: Would you bring your husband back? 
CRUSHER: Amanda, I don't know. And I don't think I could make a
decision like that until I was actually faced with it. 
AMANDA: I am faced with it. 
CRUSHER: Try to do the work. I'll come back and check on you later. 
(Crusher leaves) 
Q: I thought she'd never leave. 
AMANDA: I don't know if I'll ever get used to that. 
Q: It's time for another lesson. 
AMANDA: Well, I have to finish this experiment first. 
Q: What are you doing? 
AMANDA: We're delivering live vaccine bacilli to Tagra. I'm supposed to
find the best nutrient solution so we can keep them living while
they're in stasis. 
Q: Fascinating. I've just had a splendid idea. Why don't we combine
what you're doing with our lesson, and we'll show you how to finish in
no time. 
AMANDA: Well, I think that I should finish it the way Doctor Crusher
showed me. 
Q: Why? I'm sure she'll be delighted if we sped things along. Think
what it would mean. You could double, even triple the work load. 
AMANDA: Well. 
Q: Good. 
AMANDA: I guess so. 
Q: Now, as you take a look at the tissue samples, form an image in your
mind.

