Q PICARD CRUSHER AMANDA

[Amanda's quarters]

AMANDA: It started happening about six months ago.
Things that I would wish for would just suddenly appear. I thought I
was going crazy. In a funny way, finding this out is kind of a relief. 
CRUSHER: I can understand that. This person I mentioned, from the Q
Continuum, would like to meet you. If it's all right with you. 
AMANDA: I'm ready. 
CRUSHER: Good. 
(Beverly goes to open the door, but Q walks straight through) 
Q: There's my girl! 
(Picard enters the conventional way) 
PICARD: Amanda, allow me to introduce, er, Q. He's er, he's an
acquaintance of ours. We've er, we've known him for years. 
Q: Very impressive the way you contained that explosion. What else have
you done? 
AMANDA: I don't understand. 
Q: Telekinesis? Teleportation? Spontaneous combustion of someone you
didn't like? That sort of thing. 
PICARD: Amanda, what Q is asking is have you ever deliberately used
your abilities? 
AMANDA: Not until I came here. The first time it happened was when the
container almost fell on Commander Riker. 
Q: And you handled that very well. That's why I gave you a greater
challenge. The warp core breach. 
(Q grasps her face and stares into her eyes) 
Q: She has potential, this one. I see no reason why she can't come back
to the Continuum right now. 
AMANDA: What? 
PICARD: Q 
AMANDA: I don't want to go anywhere. 
Q: Don't worry. With time you'll overcome the disadvantages you
suffered as a child. No one will hold it against you for having been
human. Let's go. 
(Amanda sends Q flying across the room) 
AMANDA: Leave me alone! I'm not going anywhere with you!

[Ready room]

PICARD: You agreed that she has a right to choose
her own future. The first chance you get you try to abduct her. 
Q: You're overreacting as usual, Picard. I was merely testing her
power. She's quite a little spitfire, now isn't she? 
PICARD: What's going on, Q? What's your real purpose here? 
Q: I think I've been perfectly clear. The Continuum has a vested
interest in this young woman. 
PICARD: If you wish to protect that investment, I suggest that you
approach her differently. 
Q: She was being impetuous. She'll just have to start behaving like a
Q. 
PICARD: If I'm not mistaken, she just did. 
