TROI LAFORGE WORF PICARD RIKER Q CRUSHER AMANDA LOTE

[Gazebo]

(Both are in Regency clothing) 
RIKER: What is this all about? 
AMANDA: I thought it might be nice to spend some time alone together. 
RIKER: I think it would be nice if you took us back to Ten Forward. 
AMANDA: Are you sure you wouldn't want to stay here with me for a
while? The moonlight is so beautiful. Isn't it nicer here than at Ten
Forward? 
RIKER: Yes, it's very pleasant, but that's not the point. 
AMANDA: Oh? I think it is. 
(She puts her arms around his neck) 
RIKER: No. You can't just snatch people and put them in your fantasies
and expect them to respond. 
AMANDA: Don't you like me? Even just a little bit? 
RIKER: You're a very lovely young lady. But none of this is real. 
AMANDA: My feelings are real. 
RIKER: I know. But you can't make someone love you. 
AMANDA: Can't I? 
(and with a small gesture) 
RIKER: Oh, Amanda. You are so beautiful. 
(he kisses her neck) 
AMANDA: Do you love me? 
RIKER: More than anything. 
AMANDA: You're right. None of this is real. I thought it would be
romantic, but it's empty. 
RIKER: Amanda. 
AMANDA: Just go back to Ten Forward.

[Ready room]

Q: Bon jour, mon Capitane. You wanted to talk with
me? 
PICARD: I wanted to ask you about Amanda's biological parents. When
they decided to remain on Earth, what was the reaction in the Q
Continuum? 
Q: We found it incomprehensible. 
PICARD: Were they pressured to return? Were they threatened with any
punishment if they didn't? 
Q: What are you driving at, Picard? 
PICARD: Well, the circumstance of their death's quite odd. A tornado
somehow escaped the weather modification net and touched down in only
one spot. Amanda's home. 
Q: Well, you never can predict the weather. 
PICARD: But tornadoes develop from existing storm fronts. But you see,
there were no storm fronts in Kansas that day. Witnesses reported that
the funnel materialised spontaneously directly over Amanda's home,
destroyed it, and disappeared. 
Q: If you say so. I wasn't there. 
PICARD: Were Amanda's parents executed by the Q Continuum? 
Q: And what if they were? 
PICARD: Then I think she has a right to know that before she makes a
choice about her future. 
Q: Don't be foolish, Picard. She has no choice. She never did. If she's
truly Q, then she must return to the Continuum where she belongs. But
if she were some kind of hybrid, neither human nor Q, then (a gesture) 
PICARD: You would be so despicable? 
Q: Don't be naive. You have no idea what it means to be Q. With
unlimited power comes responsibility. Do you think it is reasonable for
us to allow omnipotent beings to roam free through the universe? 
PICARD: So what have you concluded? Does she live or does she die? 
Q: I haven't decided yet.

Captain's log, stardate 46193.8. We have arrived at
Tagra Four and have begun delivering supplies. In the meantime, I am
faced with a crisis of a different nature.

[Observation lounge]

PICARD: Look, I have no reason to believe that Q is
lying. He claims he has orders from the Continuum. If Amanda cannot
prove that she is fully Q, then he must kill her. 
TROI: We have to tell her. 
CRUSHER: I don't know if we should. It almost seems cruel. 
TROI: Maybe she can protect herself. After all, she has a great deal of
power. 
CRUSHER: So did her parents. It didn't save them. 
PICARD: I agree with the Counsellor. Amanda deserves to know the truth
of her situation. We have no right to withhold such crucial information
from her. But it isn't going to be easy telling her.

[Shuttlebay two]

RIKER: What's your impression of the field
modulator, Mister Lote? 
LOTE: Quite ingenious. Quite ingenious, indeed. (coughs) I'm amazed at
the way it can be incorporated with the existing system. 
LAFORGE: Commander, we're all loaded here. We can head for the surface
whenever you're ready. 
LOTE: I'm eager to see the field modulator in place, Commander. 
(Lote coughs and uses his inhaler) 
RIKER: We'd better get going. 
LOTE: Yes. 
[Ready room]

AMANDA: Kill me? But why? 
PICARD: They're not convinced that you are fully Q. And they are also
responsible for your parent's death. 
AMANDA: My parents? But what right do they have? Q? Answer me. Are you
afraid to face me? 
Q: She's such a plucky little thing, now, isn't she. I really do enjoy
you, you know. 
PICARD: Amanda's question deserves an answer, Q. You've made yourself
judge, jury, and if necessary executioner. By what right have you
appointed yourself to this position? 
Q: Superior morality. 
PICARD: Yes. I recall how you used your superior morality when we first
encountered you. You put us on trial for the crimes of humanity. 
Q: The jury is still out on that, Picard, make no mistake. 
PICARD: Your arrogant pretence at being the moral guardians of the
universe strikes me as being hollow, Q. I see no evidence that you are
guided by a superior moral code, or any code whatsoever. You may be
nearly omnipotent, and I don't deny that your parlour tricks are very
impressive, but morality? I don't see it. I don't acknowledge it, Q. I
would put human morality against the Q's any day. And perhaps that's
the reason that we fascinate you so. Because our puny behaviour shows
you a glimmer of the one thing that evades your omnipotence, a moral
centre. And if so, I can think of no crueller irony than that you
should destroy this young woman, whose only crime is that she's too
human. 
Q: Jean-Luc, sometimes I think the only reason I come here is to listen
to these wonderful speeches of yours. But this time, your concern is
unwarranted. We've decided not to harm her. And we're prepared to offer
her a choice. 
AMANDA: What kind of choice? 
Q: You can either come to the Continuum with me 
AMANDA: Or? 
Q: Now this choice is more difficult. You have it within yourself the
ability to refrain from using the power of Q. If you can do that, you
can stay here. 
AMANDA: Then I'm staying here. 
Q: Think about this. This is not so easy. Your parents were given this
choice and they were unable to resist the temptation of using their
power. 
AMANDA: All I've wanted since this whole thing began is to become a
normal human being again. I know I can resist. 
WORF [OC]: Worf to Picard. There is an emergency message from Commander
Riker. 
PICARD: I'm on my way.

