TROI LAFORGE PICARD RIKER Q CRUSHER DATA AMANDA
responding returned family began able lounge let infants responsibility

[Engineering]

LAFORGE: this is the main control area. We can
access any of the primary circuits from all of these panels. Over here
is a Jeffries tube. 
AMANDA: Where most of the major conduits are routed. 
LAFORGE: You've been doing your homework. 
AMANDA: It's hard to imagine how much energy is being harnessed in
there. 
DATA: Imagination is not necessary. The scale is readily quantifiable.
We are presently generating twelve point seven five billion gigawatts
per 
(an alarm goes off) 
DATA: Temperature in the reaction chamber has increased by forty seven
percent. 
LAFORGE: Injector couplings are frozen. I can't slow down the reaction.

DATA: Temperature increase is at one hundred six percent and rising. 
LAFORGE: La Forge to Bridge! We're looking at a core breach! We're
going to have to try and vent the plasma! 
DATA: Plasma inductors are not responding. 
LAFORGE: We're going to lose containment. All right, everybody out of
here now. Let's go! Let's move it! Data, bring down the isolation door.
We're going to have to eject the warp core. 
(the chamber explodes, but Amanda holds out her hands and pushes the
reaction back inside and seals it again) 
DATA: Temperature in the reaction chamber has returned to normal.

[Observation lounge]

CRUSHER: She's a little shaken up, but she's going
to be. 
RIKER: You said she was adopted. Could she be an alien? 
CRUSHER: She's human. There's nothing more unusual about her, not that
my instruments can detect. 
PICARD: Commander, have you been able to determine the cause of the
warp breach? 
LAFORGE: No, sir. Everything was normal and then suddenly it's like the
laws of physics went right out the window. 
Q: And why shouldn't they? They're so inconvenient. 
PICARD: Q! 
Q: Mon Capitane. 
PICARD: Are you responsible for the incident in Engineering? 
Q: Of course. I needed to find out if what I suspected about the girl
were true. 
PICARD: That being? 
Q: That she's Q. 
TROI: Amanda's a Q? 
CRUSHER: How is that possible? Her parents, her biological parents,
were human. 
Q: Well, not exactly. They had assumed human form in order to visit
Earth, I suppose for amusement. But in vulgar human fashion they
proceeded to conceive a child. And then like mawkish humans, they
became attached to it. What is it about those squirming little infants
that you find so appealing? 
CRUSHER: I'm sure that's beyond your comprehension, Q. 
Q: I desperately hope so. 
TROI: What happened to Amanda's parents? 
Q: They died in an accident. None of us knew whether she had inherited
the capacities of the Q, but recently they've began to emerge, and as
an expert in humanity, I was sent to investigate. 
RIKER: You, an expert in humanity? 
Q: Not a very challenging field of study, I grant you. 
LAFORGE: Are you saying that you created a core breach just to test
this girl? 
TROI: What would have happened if she couldn't stop it? 
Q: Then I would've known she wasn't a Q. 
CRUSHER: And now that you know, what do you intend to do? 
Q: Instruct here. If that child does not learn how to control her
power, she may accidently destroy herself. Or all of you. Or perhaps
your entire galaxy. 
PICARD: I find it hard to believe that you're here to do us a favour. 
Q: You're quite right I wouldn't. But there are those in the Continuum
who have an over-exaggerated sense of responsibility. They think that
we need to take precautions to keep the little dear from running amuck.

CRUSHER: And once you've taught her, then you'll go away? 
Q: And leave her here? Of course not. She'll come back to the
Continuum, where she belongs. 
CRUSHER: Wait a minute. You can't just come in here and take her away
from everything she's ever known. 
Q: I assure you I can. 
CRUSHER: She has plans for herself. She wants to have a career and a
family. 
Q: I'm rescuing her from that miserable existence. 
CRUSHER: That miserable existence is all she's known for the last
eighteen years. You have no right to take it away from her. 
Q: Mon Capitane, I really think that we need to speak privately. 
(so Q and Picard vanish) 
