RIKER PICARD Q LOTE [on viewscreen] CRUSHER DATA AMANDA
bridge regarding enters medical able took shipped differently explains

[Bridge]

PICARD: Number One Doctor Crusher has some live
vaccine bacilli to be delivered to Tagra. It'll have to be shipped in a
stasis field. Will you make the arrangements? 
RIKER: I'll get right on it. 
DATA: Captain, message coming in from Tagra Four. 
PICARD: On screen. 
LOTE [on viewscreen]: Enterprise, I am Orn Lote, engineer. We are
having difficulties with the reactor that
powers the barystatic filters on our southern continent. We may have to
shut it down for repairs. 
PICARD: Perhaps my Chief Engineer could be of assistance? 
LOTE [on viewscreen]: I hope so. If we are forced to disable the
reactor, it would take months to re-establish the ionic currents the
filters have formed in the atmosphere. 
PICARD: Send us your design specifications I'm sure we'll be able to
help. 
LOTE [on viewscreen]: Thank you, Captain. 
(transmission ends) 
DATA: Captain? 
PICARD: What is it, Mister Data? 
DATA: I have some information regarding Amanda Rogers' parents. Records
indicate that they died in Topeka, Kansas.
Their home was destroyed during a tornado. 
PICARD: A tornado? Why wasn't it dissipated by the weather modification
net? 
DATA: Unknown, sir. The bodies were found in the rubble after the storm
had passed. 
PICARD: See if you can find out any more details, Mister Data. I'd like
to know more about that storm. 
DATA: Aye, sir.

[Medical lab]

Q: Well, if it isn't Number Two. 
RIKER: I was looking for Doctor Crusher. I didn't know what nutrients
she wanted to send with the bacilli. 
AMANDA: I'm not sure. I'll tell her to contact you. 
RIKER: Thanks. 
AMANDA: You could stay here and wait for her, if you, you know, wanted
to. 
RIKER: Just tell her I'll be in shuttlebay two. 
(Riker leaves with a big grin) 
Q: You're attracted to him. 
AMANDA: I am not. 
Q: I think you are. How repulsive. How do you stand that hair all over
his face? 
(Beverly enters) 
AMANDA: Doctor, Commander Riker was just here looking for you. He said
he'd be in Shuttlebay Two. 
CRUSHER: Thank you. Have you finished already? 
AMANDA: Yes. 
CRUSHER: How did you do it so quickly? 
AMANDA: Q helped me. It took us about half the time that it would have
normally taken us. 
CRUSHER: That explains this data. I needed to know the rates of
mitosis. By artificially inflating them you made the experiment
useless. Now I have to do it all over again. 
AMANDA: I'm sorry, Doctor. 
Q: Don't be sorry. If she wants to make things difficult on herself,
that's her business. 
CRUSHER: Why did you interfere with what she was doing? 
Q: She's a Q. Making her plod through human chores is beneath her. 
CRUSHER: She has asked not to be treated differently. 
Q: That doesn't mean she should be bored to death. 
CRUSHER: I don't interfere with what you're teaching her. 
Q: You wouldn't be capable of interfering. 
CRUSHER: I don't think it's too much to ask for you to do the same. 
(Beverly is suddenly turned into a red setter dog. Amanda restores her
to human)
CRUSHER: And you stay out of mine. 
Q: Well, when you put it like that, I think you're absolutely right.

