RIKER OBRIEN LAFORGE BERIK FERENGI WORF COMPUTER LURIN MORTA CRUSHER DATA

[Engineering]

LAFORGE: We think the shuttle was caught in a
molecular reversion field, which caused the structure of the ship to
deteriorate. When the field penetrated the hull, it also began to
affect the shuttle's crew. 
O'BRIEN: When I tried to beam them off, I wasn't able to get a lock
because the reversion field was masking part of the patterns. 
CRUSHER: If the transporter only registered part of the RVN patterns,
that would explain why the key sequences are missing. 
LAFORGE: Exactly. With those key sequences missing, the transporter
reconstructed them as children. 
RIKER: If they're right, would you be able to use the transporter to
reverse the effects? 
CRUSHER: I think so. As long as there's no reversion field to mask
their patterns, we should be able to do it. Chief, can you adjust the
molecular imaging scanners to accept 
WORF [OC]: Bridge to Commander Riker. 
RIKER: Go ahead. 
WORF [OC]: We are entering orbit around Ligos Seven, sir. 
RIKER: On my way. We'll discuss this later.

[Bridge]

RIKER: Standard orbit, Ensign. Any sign of the
science team? 
DATA: We've been scanning the area since entering the system, but our
readings are being disrupted. 
RIKER: Cause? 
DATA: Extreme fluctuations in the electromagnetic field. However, there
is no evidence of stellar or seismic activity which would cause the
interference. 
RIKER: Any response to our hails, Mister Worf? 
WORF: No, sir. I have been attempting to. Commander, two ships
decloaking fore and aft. Klingon birds of prey, B'rel class. 
(which promptly start firing at the Enterprise) 
RIKER: Maximum shields. Take us out of orbit, Ensign. Mister Worf,
prepare to return fire. 
(Young Picard rushes out of his quarters at the Red alert) 
RIKER: Damage report. 
WORF: We've lost primary life support. Switching to secondary systems. 
RIKER: Lock phasers on target bearing to port. 
WORF: Phasers locked. 
RIKER: Fire. 
DATA: Minor damage to one ship. Its shields are holding. 
WORF: Starboard power coupling is down. Warp engines are offline. 
RIKER: Shields? 
WORF: Down to thirteen percent. 
(the ship takes more hits) 
WORF: Casualties reported on decks twenty six and twenty seven. 
DATA: Sensors and secondary generators are offline. Life support down
to sixty seven percent. 
RIKER: Engineering, status report.

[Engineering]

LAFORGE: Those last shots took out auxiliary power
and emergency back-up. It's going to take at least an hour to get 
[Bridge]

LAFORGE [OC]: Warp power back online. 
WORF: We have lost shields. Heavy casualties on decks thirty five
through forty. 
DATA: I am detecting transporter signatures in three cargo bays. We are
being boarded, sir.

[Corridor]

(Young Picard gets to a turbolift, and meets an
armed Ferengi stepping out) 
FERENGI: Come with me. 
[Bridge]

RIKER: Initiate intruder alert. All security teams
report to 
(two Ferengi beam in) 
BERIK: Put down your weapons. 
(Worf fires, and gets shot for his trouble) 
RIKER: Computer, deactivate all command functions. Authorisation, Riker
Omega Three 
COMPUTER: All command functions suspended. 
(two more Ferengi enter) 
MORTA: This is Morta. We have secured the Bridge. Begin transporting
all able-bodied adults to the surface.

[Transporter room]

(O'Brien is under armed guard as Geordi and others
are lead in) 
FERENGI: Come on, get up there. Up, up. 
[Bridge]

BERIK: They have locked out the command functions. 
MORTA: You said they would not have time. 
BERIK: You led the assault team. You were too slow. 
MORTA: You dare to blame me! 
(an older Ferengi enters) 
BERIK: We have secured the ship, DaiMon, but Morta's incompetence has
denied us access to 
MORTA: My incompetence? DaiMon, you know that I am 
LURIN: Enough. Where is the Captain of this ship? 
RIKER: I'm in command of this vessel. Who are you and on whose
authority do you 
LURIN: I am DaiMon Lurin and I declare this ship to be a loss and open
to claim according to the Ferengi Salvage Code. You will cooperate with
our salvage operations or we will begin executing your crew.

