GUINAN JR RIKER LAFORGE WORF WORF [OC] LAFORGE [OC] BERIK COMPUTER O'BRIEN RO JR FERENGI MORTA CRUSHER DATA
don target ll reconstructed reported guard computer shuttle shot

[Ro's quarters]

GUINAN JR: Well, this is exciting. 
RO JR: Would you rather be playing with dolls? 
GUINAN JR: I'd rather be doing almost anything other than sitting here
and watching you sulk. 
RO JR: This isn't some kind of glorious second childhood, Guinan. Our
bodies have been violated, changed.
Doesn't that bother you? 
GUINAN JR: Sure it bothers me, but at the moment I can't do anything
about it. So I might as well enjoy it. 
RO JR: Enjoy what? Where did you get the idea that being short and
awkward is some kind of wonderful gift? 
GUINAN JR: There must've been some part of childhood that you didn't
loathe. 
RO JR: Look, it was a long, depressing period of my life and I was
grateful when it was finally over. I'd rather not relive it. 
GUINAN JR: I bet you were a jumper. A jumper. You know, someone who
jumped up and down on furniture all the time. 
RO JR: What? 
GUINAN JR: You were a jumper all right. The quiet ones, they always
look so innocent. You think you can turn your back on them. Next thing
you know, bam! They're bouncing on the bed. 
RO JR: That is the most ridiculous thing I've ever heard. Most of the
time I didn't even have a bed. 
GUINAN JR: Ah but you did have one sometimes and I bet you jumped on
it. 
RO JR: I most certainly did not. 
GUINAN JR: Yeah I can see it in your eyes. You can barely resist the
urge to leap up and start jumping around like a Tarkassian razorbeast. 
RO JR: Guinan. 
GUINAN JR: Oh yeah, oh yeah 
(Guinan bounces on the bed) 
RO JR: This is ridiculous. 
GUINAN JR: That's right. And don't you dare join me, Ro Laren. You
don't like jumping on beds! 
RO JR: Oh yeah? I can jump higher. 
[Engineering]

LAFORGE: We think the shuttle was caught in a
molecular reversion field, which caused the structure of the ship to
deteriorate. When the field penetrated the hull, it also began to
affect the shuttle's crew. 
O'BRIEN: When I tried to beam them off, I wasn't able to get a lock
because the reversion field was masking part of the patterns. 
CRUSHER: If the transporter only registered part of the RVN patterns,
that would explain why the key sequences are missing. 
LAFORGE: Exactly. With those key sequences missing, the transporter
reconstructed them as children. 
RIKER: If they're right, would you be able to use the transporter to
reverse the effects? 
CRUSHER: I think so. As long as there's no reversion field to mask
their patterns, we should be able to do it. Chief, can you adjust the
molecular imaging scanners to accept 
WORF [OC]: Bridge to Commander Riker. 
RIKER: Go ahead. 
WORF [OC]: We are entering orbit around Ligos Seven, sir. 
RIKER: On my way. We'll discuss this later.

[Bridge]

RIKER: Standard orbit, Ensign. Any sign of the
science team? 
DATA: We've been scanning the area since entering the system, but our
readings are being disrupted. 
RIKER: Cause? 
DATA: Extreme fluctuations in the electromagnetic field. However, there
is no evidence of stellar or seismic activity which would cause the
interference. 
RIKER: Any response to our hails, Mister Worf? 
WORF: No, sir. I have been attempting to. Commander, two ships
decloaking fore and aft. Klingon birds of prey, B'rel class. 
(which promptly start firing at the Enterprise) 
RIKER: Maximum shields. Take us out of orbit, Ensign. Mister Worf,
prepare to return fire. 
(Young Picard rushes out of his quarters at the Red alert) 
RIKER: Damage report. 
WORF: We've lost primary life support. Switching to secondary systems. 
RIKER: Lock phasers on target bearing to port. 
WORF: Phasers locked. 
RIKER: Fire. 
DATA: Minor damage to one ship. Its shields are holding. 
WORF: Starboard power coupling is down. Warp engines are offline. 
RIKER: Shields? 
WORF: Down to thirteen percent. 
(the ship takes more hits) 
WORF: Casualties reported on decks twenty six and twenty seven. 
DATA: Sensors and secondary generators are offline. Life support down
to sixty seven percent. 
RIKER: Engineering, status report.

[Engineering]

LAFORGE: Those last shots took out auxiliary power
and emergency back-up. It's going to take at least an hour to get 
[Bridge]

LAFORGE [OC]: Warp power back online. 
WORF: We have lost shields. Heavy casualties on decks thirty five
through forty. 
DATA: I am detecting transporter signatures in three cargo bays. We are
being boarded, sir.

[Corridor]

(Young Picard gets to a turbolift, and meets an
armed Ferengi stepping out) 
FERENGI: Come with me. 
[Bridge]

RIKER: Initiate intruder alert. All security teams
report to 
(two Ferengi beam in) 
BERIK: Put down your weapons. 
(Worf fires, and gets shot for his trouble) 
RIKER: Computer, deactivate all command functions. Authorisation, Riker
Omega Three 
COMPUTER: All command functions suspended. 
(two more Ferengi enter) 
MORTA: This is Morta. We have secured the Bridge. Begin transporting
all able-bodied adults to the surface.

[Transporter room]

(O'Brien is under armed guard as Geordi and others
are lead in) 
FERENGI: Come on, get up there. Up, up. 
