TROI OBRIEN LAFORGE WORF DATA MOLLY RIKER PICARDJR ROJR GUINANJR CRUSHER KEIKOJR

[Molly's bedroom]

O'BRIEN: What's wrong, Sweetheart? 
MOLLY: I want Mommy to read me a story. 
KEIKO JR: All right. What story would you like to hear? 
MOLLY: Not you. I want Mommy. 
(Keiko leaves) 
O'BRIEN: What if Daddy reads you a story tonight? Will that be okay?
I'll be right back.

[O'Brien quarters]

O'BRIEN: Keiko. It's going to be all right. I
promise. We'll work this out. 
KEIKO JR: How? 
O'BRIEN: I don't know.

First Officer's log, supplemental. The Enterprise
has reached the Ligos system, and we have begun to search for the
missing Federation science team. Doctor Crusher reports no progress on
a cure for the members of the shuttle crew.

[Picard's quarters]

(Picard is enjoying running his fingers through his
hair again, and puts on the jacket when the doorbell rings) 
PICARD JR: Come. 
TROI: I came to see how you're doing. 
PICARD JR: I'll have to speak to my tailor, but otherwise I'm well,
thank you. It's just so ridiculous. I can't really take myself
seriously like this. Counsellor, if Doctor Crusher can't find a cure,
if I have to stay this way, nobody's going to take me seriously, are
they? 
TROI: I would say the people that know you and have worked with you,
will be able to make the adjustment eventually. But there are some
people who would find it difficult to accept a twelve year old captain.

PICARD JR: In that case, I suppose I'll just have to wait until I grow
up again before I get another command. Which might be in ten, maybe
fifteen years. The question is what to do until then? 
TROI: You're still a Starfleet captain. I'm sure there are other
assignments you could be given in the interim. 
PICARD JR:: I've spent thirty years of my life aboard starships I'm not
about to sit behind a desk now. 
TROI: You could return to the Academy. Take another degree. Brush up on
your Latin. 
PICARD JR: And be Wesley Crusher's room mate? I will admit that
returning to the Academy does have a certain appeal, but I've spent my
life looking forward. Going to the Academy again feels like looking
backward. 
TROI: Then perhaps you could spend the time exploring another
interests. Archeology, for instance. 
PICARD JR: Leave Starfleet? 
TROI: Not permanently, just a sabbatical. You could spend a few years
crawling through caves and digging up artefacts, and still have enough
time to become the youngest admiral in Starfleet history. 
PICARD JR: It would give me a chance to take up Doctor Langford's offer
and accompany her to the ruins on Suvin Four. But to leave the
Enterprise. 
TROI: In a way, you're very lucky. You might have a chance do what most
people can only dream about. Have a second childhood without the pain
of growing up again.

[Crusher's office]

CRUSHER: This is Captain Picard's
rybo-viroxic-nucleic structure from a tissue sample I took this
morning. It's the same as a sample I took before the accident, except
it's missing several of the key viroxic sequences. 
RIKER: It's been a long time since I took genetics, Doctor. 
CRUSHER: RVN is one of the key factors in our development during
puberty. Unlike DNA, which never changes, RVN takes on some additional
viroxic sequences during adolescence. Those sequences determine how we
develop physically. 
RIKER: Without them we would never mature into adults. 
CRUSHER: Exactly. Somehow, those sequences were eliminated in the
Captain and the others during transport. 
RIKER: So what do we do? 
CRUSHER: Well, we have a couple of options. These are the plants Keiko
was carrying on the shuttle. Whatever turned the crew into children
turned these plants into seedlings. I accelerated the growth on one of
them, and it developed into a perfectly normal adult plant. 
RIKER: I don't suppose that would work with people? 
CRUSHER: No, but at least we know that if we do nothing at all, they
will probably grow up just as they did before. 
RIKER: That's one option. 
CRUSHER: However, I do have the adult RVN patterns of all four of them.
I might be able to send them back through the transporter pattern
buffer and replace the missing sequences. But we can't even attempt
that until we know why this happened in the first place. If somehow
they were to lose more viroxic sequences. 
RIKER: They would get even younger.

[Shuttlebay two]

LAFORGE: Chief, I got the sensor report on the
shuttle break-up. It looks like the break-up began near the starboard
bulkhead. 
O'BRIEN: There're some bulkhead fragments over here. 
LAFORGE: My visor's picking up some torsional stress damage, some
micro-fractures. Hang on a second. What's this? 
O'BRIEN: It looks like tritanium from the hull. 
LAFORGE: Yeah, but look. 
(Geordi crumbles it into dust) 
LAFORGE: That's not tritanium anymore. Somehow the molecular structure
of this alloy's been changed, broken down into its constituent
elements. 
O'BRIEN: No wonder the bulkhead shattered. 
LAFORGE: Yeah. I want to get a sample of this down to Engineering and
run a metallurgical analysis.

[Ro's quarters]

GUINAN JR: Well, this is exciting. 
RO JR: Would you rather be playing with dolls? 
GUINAN JR: I'd rather be doing almost anything other than sitting here
and watching you sulk. 
RO JR: This isn't some kind of glorious second childhood, Guinan. Our
bodies have been violated, changed.
Doesn't that bother you? 
GUINAN JR: Sure it bothers me, but at the moment I can't do anything
about it. So I might as well enjoy it. 
RO JR: Enjoy what? Where did you get the idea that being short and
awkward is some kind of wonderful gift? 
GUINAN JR: There must've been some part of childhood that you didn't
loathe. 
RO JR: Look, it was a long, depressing period of my life and I was
grateful when it was finally over. I'd rather not relive it. 
GUINAN JR: I bet you were a jumper. A jumper. You know, someone who
jumped up and down on furniture all the time. 
RO JR: What? 
GUINAN JR: You were a jumper all right. The quiet ones, they always
look so innocent. You think you can turn your back on them. Next thing
you know, bam! They're bouncing on the bed. 
RO JR: That is the most ridiculous thing I've ever heard. Most of the
time I didn't even have a bed. 
GUINAN JR: Ah but you did have one sometimes and I bet you jumped on
it. 
RO JR: I most certainly did not. 
GUINAN JR: Yeah I can see it in your eyes. You can barely resist the
urge to leap up and start jumping around like a Tarkassian razorbeast. 
RO JR: Guinan. 
GUINAN JR: Oh yeah, oh yeah 
(Guinan bounces on the bed) 
RO JR: This is ridiculous. 
GUINAN JR: That's right. And don't you dare join me, Ro Laren. You
don't like jumping on beds! 
RO JR: Oh yeah? I can jump higher. 
[Engineering]

LAFORGE: We think the shuttle was caught in a
molecular reversion field, which caused the structure of the ship to
deteriorate. When the field penetrated the hull, it also began to
affect the shuttle's crew. 
O'BRIEN: When I tried to beam them off, I wasn't able to get a lock
because the reversion field was masking part of the patterns. 
CRUSHER: If the transporter only registered part of the RVN patterns,
that would explain why the key sequences are missing. 
LAFORGE: Exactly. With those key sequences missing, the transporter
reconstructed them as children. 
RIKER: If they're right, would you be able to use the transporter to
reverse the effects? 
CRUSHER: I think so. As long as there's no reversion field to mask
their patterns, we should be able to do it. Chief, can you adjust the
molecular imaging scanners to accept 
WORF [OC]: Bridge to Commander Riker. 
RIKER: Go ahead. 
WORF [OC]: We are entering orbit around Ligos Seven, sir. 
RIKER: On my way. We'll discuss this later.

[Bridge]

RIKER: Standard orbit, Ensign. Any sign of the
science team? 
DATA: We've been scanning the area since entering the system, but our
readings are being disrupted. 
RIKER: Cause? 
DATA: Extreme fluctuations in the electromagnetic field. However, there
is no evidence of stellar or seismic activity which would cause the
interference. 
RIKER: Any response to our hails, Mister Worf? 
WORF: No, sir. I have been attempting to. Commander, two ships
decloaking fore and aft. Klingon birds of prey, B'rel class. 
(which promptly start firing at the Enterprise) 
RIKER: Maximum shields. Take us out of orbit, Ensign. Mister Worf,
prepare to return fire. 
(Young Picard rushes out of his quarters at the Red alert) 
RIKER: Damage report. 
WORF: We've lost primary life support. Switching to secondary systems. 
RIKER: Lock phasers on target bearing to port. 
WORF: Phasers locked. 
RIKER: Fire. 
DATA: Minor damage to one ship. Its shields are holding. 
WORF: Starboard power coupling is down. Warp engines are offline. 
RIKER: Shields? 
WORF: Down to thirteen percent. 
(the ship takes more hits) 
WORF: Casualties reported on decks twenty six and twenty seven. 
DATA: Sensors and secondary generators are offline. Life support down
to sixty seven percent. 
RIKER: Engineering, status report.

