RIKER LAFORGE BERIK FERENGI WORF DATA COMPUTER LURIN GUINANJR MORTA PICARDJR KEIKOJR ROJR

[Bridge]

RIKER: Standard orbit, Ensign. Any sign of the
science team? 
DATA: We've been scanning the area since entering the system, but our
readings are being disrupted. 
RIKER: Cause? 
DATA: Extreme fluctuations in the electromagnetic field. However, there
is no evidence of stellar or seismic activity which would cause the
interference. 
RIKER: Any response to our hails, Mister Worf? 
WORF: No, sir. I have been attempting to. Commander, two ships
decloaking fore and aft. Klingon birds of prey, B'rel class. 
(which promptly start firing at the Enterprise) 
RIKER: Maximum shields. Take us out of orbit, Ensign. Mister Worf,
prepare to return fire. 
(Young Picard rushes out of his quarters at the Red alert) 
RIKER: Damage report. 
WORF: We've lost primary life support. Switching to secondary systems. 
RIKER: Lock phasers on target bearing to port. 
WORF: Phasers locked. 
RIKER: Fire. 
DATA: Minor damage to one ship. Its shields are holding. 
WORF: Starboard power coupling is down. Warp engines are offline. 
RIKER: Shields? 
WORF: Down to thirteen percent. 
(the ship takes more hits) 
WORF: Casualties reported on decks twenty six and twenty seven. 
DATA: Sensors and secondary generators are offline. Life support down
to sixty seven percent. 
RIKER: Engineering, status report.

[Engineering]

LAFORGE: Those last shots took out auxiliary power
and emergency back-up. It's going to take at least an hour to get 
[Bridge]

LAFORGE [OC]: Warp power back online. 
WORF: We have lost shields. Heavy casualties on decks thirty five
through forty. 
DATA: I am detecting transporter signatures in three cargo bays. We are
being boarded, sir.

[Corridor]

(Young Picard gets to a turbolift, and meets an
armed Ferengi stepping out) 
FERENGI: Come with me. 
[Bridge]

RIKER: Initiate intruder alert. All security teams
report to 
(two Ferengi beam in) 
BERIK: Put down your weapons. 
(Worf fires, and gets shot for his trouble) 
RIKER: Computer, deactivate all command functions. Authorisation, Riker
Omega Three 
COMPUTER: All command functions suspended. 
(two more Ferengi enter) 
MORTA: This is Morta. We have secured the Bridge. Begin transporting
all able-bodied adults to the surface.

[Transporter room]

(O'Brien is under armed guard as Geordi and others
are lead in) 
FERENGI: Come on, get up there. Up, up. 
[Bridge]

BERIK: They have locked out the command functions. 
MORTA: You said they would not have time. 
BERIK: You led the assault team. You were too slow. 
MORTA: You dare to blame me! 
(an older Ferengi enters) 
BERIK: We have secured the ship, DaiMon, but Morta's incompetence has
denied us access to 
MORTA: My incompetence? DaiMon, you know that I am 
LURIN: Enough. Where is the Captain of this ship? 
RIKER: I'm in command of this vessel. Who are you and on whose
authority do you 
LURIN: I am DaiMon Lurin and I declare this ship to be a loss and open
to claim according to the Ferengi Salvage Code. You will cooperate with
our salvage operations or we will begin executing your crew.

[School room]

(Picard is thrown into the room, and the children
are left unguarded) 
PICARD JR: Is everyone all right? 
RO JR: No fatalities or injuries among the children. The Ferengi have
taken control of main Engineering and decks twenty three through thirty
seven. 
PICARD JR: We have to assume they've also taken the Bridge. 
KEIKO JR: Captain, do you know what they've done with the younger
children? With my little girl? 
PICARD JR: They're taking all the adults down to the surface. It looks
like they're keeping all the children on board the ship. Where was your
daughter? 
KEIKO JR: In primary care on deck fourteen. 
PICARD JR: She's probably still there with the others. I wouldn't
worry. We need to regain control of the ship. Options? 
RO JR: We could flood the ship with anesthizine gas. 
PICARD JR: That's been locked out with the rest of the command
functions. 
RO JR: If they're typical Ferengi, they're probably very pleased with
themselves by now. Maybe even getting a little overconfident. 
PICARD JR: Agreed. They might think they don't need as much of their
crew to hold the ship. We could use the element of surprise to give us
a tactical advantage. 
GUINAN JR: Tactical advantage? Jean-Luc, look at your team for a
minute. We're children. 
PICARD JR: We can't just stay here while our ship is being
commandeered. 
GUINAN JR: I'm not suggesting that we do. But we can't act as if we
were still adults. 
PICARD JR: What do you suggest we do? 
GUINAN JR: We look like children. Maybe it's time we started acting
like children.

