RIKER WORF BERIK FERENGI ALEXANDER ROJR COMPUTER LURIN PICARD GUINANJR DATA MORTA PICARDJR KEIKOJR LAFORGE

[Bridge]

LAFORGE [OC]: Warp power back online. 
WORF: We have lost shields. Heavy casualties on decks thirty five
through forty. 
DATA: I am detecting transporter signatures in three cargo bays. We are
being boarded, sir.

[Corridor]

(Young Picard gets to a turbolift, and meets an
armed Ferengi stepping out) 
FERENGI: Come with me. 
[Bridge]

RIKER: Initiate intruder alert. All security teams
report to 
(two Ferengi beam in) 
BERIK: Put down your weapons. 
(Worf fires, and gets shot for his trouble) 
RIKER: Computer, deactivate all command functions. Authorisation, Riker
Omega Three 
COMPUTER: All command functions suspended. 
(two more Ferengi enter) 
MORTA: This is Morta. We have secured the Bridge. Begin transporting
all able-bodied adults to the surface.

[Transporter room]

(O'Brien is under armed guard as Geordi and others
are lead in) 
FERENGI: Come on, get up there. Up, up. 
[Bridge]

BERIK: They have locked out the command functions. 
MORTA: You said they would not have time. 
BERIK: You led the assault team. You were too slow. 
MORTA: You dare to blame me! 
(an older Ferengi enters) 
BERIK: We have secured the ship, DaiMon, but Morta's incompetence has
denied us access to 
MORTA: My incompetence? DaiMon, you know that I am 
LURIN: Enough. Where is the Captain of this ship? 
RIKER: I'm in command of this vessel. Who are you and on whose
authority do you 
LURIN: I am DaiMon Lurin and I declare this ship to be a loss and open
to claim according to the Ferengi Salvage Code. You will cooperate with
our salvage operations or we will begin executing your crew.

[School room]

(Picard is thrown into the room, and the children
are left unguarded) 
PICARD JR: Is everyone all right? 
RO JR: No fatalities or injuries among the children. The Ferengi have
taken control of main Engineering and decks twenty three through thirty
seven. 
PICARD JR: We have to assume they've also taken the Bridge. 
KEIKO JR: Captain, do you know what they've done with the younger
children? With my little girl? 
PICARD JR: They're taking all the adults down to the surface. It looks
like they're keeping all the children on board the ship. Where was your
daughter? 
KEIKO JR: In primary care on deck fourteen. 
PICARD JR: She's probably still there with the others. I wouldn't
worry. We need to regain control of the ship. Options? 
RO JR: We could flood the ship with anesthizine gas. 
PICARD JR: That's been locked out with the rest of the command
functions. 
RO JR: If they're typical Ferengi, they're probably very pleased with
themselves by now. Maybe even getting a little overconfident. 
PICARD JR: Agreed. They might think they don't need as much of their
crew to hold the ship. We could use the element of surprise to give us
a tactical advantage. 
GUINAN JR: Tactical advantage? Jean-Luc, look at your team for a
minute. We're children. 
PICARD JR: We can't just stay here while our ship is being
commandeered. 
GUINAN JR: I'm not suggesting that we do. But we can't act as if we
were still adults. 
PICARD JR: What do you suggest we do? 
GUINAN JR: We look like children. Maybe it's time we started acting
like children.

[Ready room]

RIKER: I hope your profit margin's pretty high for
this little adventure, because you're risking war with the Federation. 
LURIN: We're not affiliated with the Ferengi Alliance. We are in
business for ourselves. Yes, it will be highly profitable. For an
investment of two surplus Klingon ships, a few repairs and some
weapons, we've netted a Federation starship and her crew, not to
mention a planet rich in vendarite. 
RIKER: So that's what this is all about. What did you do with the
science team that was on the surface? 
LURIN: They have proved most helpful in extracting the mineral. 
RIKER: You used them as slave labourers. 
LURIN: The addition of your crew will greatly speed up the process. As
for your ship, I'm sure that it will fetch a handsome price on the
Romulan market. But before that can happen, we need to regain access to
your central computer. 
RIKER: You don't really think I'm going to help you. 
LURIN: I think that the mines on Ligos Seven can be very hazardous.
Now, how many people on your ship? 
RIKER: One thousand fourteen. 
LURIN: Very hazardous, Commander.

[School room]

(the classroom seven computer interface is a
talking fish with a male voice) 
COMPUTER: Hello. I'm the classroom computer system. What can I do for
you, today? 
PICARD JR: Computer, display interior security grid. 
COMPUTER: I'm sorry, but I can't do that. Would you like to play a
game? 
PICARD JR: No, I would not. Computer, display an internal schematic
diagram. 
COMPUTER: I'm sorry, but I can't do that. Would you like to see some
interesting plants or animals? 
GUINAN JR: It's a child's computer, remember? Computer, can you show me
a picture of the inside of the Enterprise? 
COMPUTER: Yes, I can. The Enterprise is a Galaxy-class starship. Do you
know how to spell Enterprise? E N T E 
PICARD JR: Delete audio. All right, this'll have to do. We're here.
there's a service conduit that runs to here and then leads to a
Jeffries tube here. But you and Ensign Ro will still have to cross this
corridor before you can get to main Engineering. 
(Ro and Keiko take the hatch off the crawlway) 
RO JR: Captain. 
PICARD JR: Excellent. Ready? Make it so. 
(Ro and Guinan crawl in, then Picard's leg is hit by a large
radio-controlled toy vehicle) 
PICARD: What the devil? 
ALEXANDER: I was just playing. I'm sorry, Captain. 
PICARD JR: Alexander, would you mind if I borrowed your toy for a
little while? 
ALEXANDER: Go ahead. 
PICARD JR: Thank you. 
(he puts it in the crawlway) 
PICARD: After you. 
(Keiko enters the crawlway and Picard follows)

