TROI OBRIEN LAFORGE MOLLY RIKER PICARDJR ROJR GUINANJR CRUSHER KEIKOJR

[Bridge]

PICARD JR: Commander Riker, please take command of
the ship until further notice. 
RIKER: Understood.

[Corridor]

RO JR: So what the hell am I supposed to do now? 
GUINAN JR: You're not supposed to do anything. That's what relieved of
duty means. 
RO JR: Well, I should be doing something instead of just standing
around waiting for them to find a cure. 
GUINAN JR: You're right. Let's go play. 
RO JR: What? 
GUINAN JR: I haven't been young for a long time and I intend to enjoy
every minute of it. 
RO JR: Fine. Enjoy yourself. 
GUINAN JR: What are you going to do? Go back to your room and pout? 
RO JR: I am not twelve years old. If I want to go to my quarters and
contemplate my situation, that does not mean that I am pouting. 
GUINAN JR: Okay, okay.

[O'Brien quarters]

(Keiko wants the mister from an upper shelf, and
has to stand on a box to get it before she can spray the orchid) 
O'BRIEN: I could use a cup of coffee. How about you? 
KEIKO JR: I'll get it. Two coffees. One with cream and sugar, the other

O'BRIEN: Black, double sweet 
KEIKO JR: I know. One double sweet. 
O'BRIEN: Careful, that's hot. 
KEIKO JR: Miles. 
O'BRIEN: Sorry. 
(She snuggles up to his and he gets up and walks away) 
KEIKO JR: What's wrong? 
O'BRIEN: It's. I don't know, but this feels wrong somehow. 
KEIKO JR: Miles Edward O'Brien, I am still your wife. 
O'BRIEN: Well technically, yes. 
KEIKO JR: Technically? 
O'BRIEN: No. I mean, of course you're my wife. But you're also ten
years old. 
KEIKO JR: Beverly said it's actually closer to twelve. 
O'BRIEN: That's not the point. 
KEIKO JR: So what is the point? Is our marriage over? 
O'BRIEN: I didn't say that. But until they find a way to reverse this,
this effect, it's going hard for me to ignore the fact that you're a
little girl. 
KEIKO JR: What if they can't find a way? What if I'm like this the rest
of my life? What does that mean for us, for our family? 
MOLLY [OC]: Mommy? Mommy.

[Molly's bedroom]

O'BRIEN: What's wrong, Sweetheart? 
MOLLY: I want Mommy to read me a story. 
KEIKO JR: All right. What story would you like to hear? 
MOLLY: Not you. I want Mommy. 
(Keiko leaves) 
O'BRIEN: What if Daddy reads you a story tonight? Will that be okay?
I'll be right back.

[O'Brien quarters]

O'BRIEN: Keiko. It's going to be all right. I
promise. We'll work this out. 
KEIKO JR: How? 
O'BRIEN: I don't know.

First Officer's log, supplemental. The Enterprise
has reached the Ligos system, and we have begun to search for the
missing Federation science team. Doctor Crusher reports no progress on
a cure for the members of the shuttle crew.

[Picard's quarters]

(Picard is enjoying running his fingers through his
hair again, and puts on the jacket when the doorbell rings) 
PICARD JR: Come. 
TROI: I came to see how you're doing. 
PICARD JR: I'll have to speak to my tailor, but otherwise I'm well,
thank you. It's just so ridiculous. I can't really take myself
seriously like this. Counsellor, if Doctor Crusher can't find a cure,
if I have to stay this way, nobody's going to take me seriously, are
they? 
TROI: I would say the people that know you and have worked with you,
will be able to make the adjustment eventually. But there are some
people who would find it difficult to accept a twelve year old captain.

PICARD JR: In that case, I suppose I'll just have to wait until I grow
up again before I get another command. Which might be in ten, maybe
fifteen years. The question is what to do until then? 
TROI: You're still a Starfleet captain. I'm sure there are other
assignments you could be given in the interim. 
PICARD JR:: I've spent thirty years of my life aboard starships I'm not
about to sit behind a desk now. 
TROI: You could return to the Academy. Take another degree. Brush up on
your Latin. 
PICARD JR: And be Wesley Crusher's room mate? I will admit that
returning to the Academy does have a certain appeal, but I've spent my
life looking forward. Going to the Academy again feels like looking
backward. 
TROI: Then perhaps you could spend the time exploring another
interests. Archeology, for instance. 
PICARD JR: Leave Starfleet? 
TROI: Not permanently, just a sabbatical. You could spend a few years
crawling through caves and digging up artefacts, and still have enough
time to become the youngest admiral in Starfleet history. 
PICARD JR: It would give me a chance to take up Doctor Langford's offer
and accompany her to the ruins on Suvin Four. But to leave the
Enterprise. 
TROI: In a way, you're very lucky. You might have a chance do what most
people can only dream about. Have a second childhood without the pain
of growing up again.

[Crusher's office]

CRUSHER: This is Captain Picard's
rybo-viroxic-nucleic structure from a tissue sample I took this
morning. It's the same as a sample I took before the accident, except
it's missing several of the key viroxic sequences. 
RIKER: It's been a long time since I took genetics, Doctor. 
CRUSHER: RVN is one of the key factors in our development during
puberty. Unlike DNA, which never changes, RVN takes on some additional
viroxic sequences during adolescence. Those sequences determine how we
develop physically. 
RIKER: Without them we would never mature into adults. 
CRUSHER: Exactly. Somehow, those sequences were eliminated in the
Captain and the others during transport. 
RIKER: So what do we do? 
CRUSHER: Well, we have a couple of options. These are the plants Keiko
was carrying on the shuttle. Whatever turned the crew into children
turned these plants into seedlings. I accelerated the growth on one of
them, and it developed into a perfectly normal adult plant. 
RIKER: I don't suppose that would work with people? 
CRUSHER: No, but at least we know that if we do nothing at all, they
will probably grow up just as they did before. 
RIKER: That's one option. 
CRUSHER: However, I do have the adult RVN patterns of all four of them.
I might be able to send them back through the transporter pattern
buffer and replace the missing sequences. But we can't even attempt
that until we know why this happened in the first place. If somehow
they were to lose more viroxic sequences. 
RIKER: They would get even younger.

[Shuttlebay two]

LAFORGE: Chief, I got the sensor report on the
shuttle break-up. It looks like the break-up began near the starboard
bulkhead. 
O'BRIEN: There're some bulkhead fragments over here. 
LAFORGE: My visor's picking up some torsional stress damage, some
micro-fractures. Hang on a second. What's this? 
O'BRIEN: It looks like tritanium from the hull. 
LAFORGE: Yeah, but look. 
(Geordi crumbles it into dust) 
LAFORGE: That's not tritanium anymore. Somehow the molecular structure
of this alloy's been changed, broken down into its constituent
elements. 
O'BRIEN: No wonder the bulkhead shattered. 
LAFORGE: Yeah. I want to get a sample of this down to Engineering and
run a metallurgical analysis.

