TROI LAFORGE WORF PICARD RIKER DATAELI ANNIE DATA DATAFRANK

[Gold Strike saloon]

ANNIE: What'll it be? 
WORF: I was looking for my deputy. Perhaps you have seen him. 
ANNIE: Nope. What'll you have? 
WORF: Klingon fire wine. 
ANNIE: This ain't Kansas City. We ain't got none of that fancy European
stuff here. Maybe I should get you a sherry. Ain't that is what they
serve at Miss Langford's? It is, ain't it? Ain't it? 
(Frank, the Mexican and an outlaw enter. The piano playing stops) 
DATA-FRANK: Howdy, Sheriff. 
WORF: Commander, what are you doing here? 
DATA-FRANK: The name is Frank Hollander. What are you smiling at? 
WORF: Nothing. Nothing at all, Mister Hollander. What is it you want? 
DATA-FRANK: My boy. 
WORF: That is impossible. Your son is to stand trial for murder. 
DATA-FRANK: Well then, we'll just have to work something out. Is there
anything you want in exchange for my boy? 
WORF: You have nothing I want. 
DATA-FRANK: Is that so? Is that so? What about your deputy? 
WORF: What about him? Where is he? I do not negotiate with criminals.
Your son will stand trial. 
(Data grabs Worf's shoulder as he walks past, hurting him) 
DATA-FRANK: Not so fast. 
WORF: Commander, what are you doing? 
DATA-FRANK: I ain't in the mood for games, Sheriff. 
WORF: Data? Commander? Computer, freeze programme. 
DATA-FRANK: I wouldn't walk out that door if I was you, Sheriff. 
(So Worf dives out amid a hail of bullets from the Mexican and the
outlaw)


[Sheriff's office]

(Troi is practicing her fast draw when Worf rushes
in) 
TROI: What's wrong? 
WORF: The holodeck safeguards are not functioning. Alexander's in
trouble. 
TROI: My God, you've been shot! Computer, end programme. Troi to
Captain Picard. Troi to Security. 
WORF: There's another character in the programme. Hollander's father.
And he looks like Commander Data. 
(Troi uses her bandana to bind Worf's arm) 
TROI: Data? 
WORF: But it is not Data. I cannot explain. I believe he has taken
Alexander. 
DATA-ELI: Oh, now isn't that a shame? Poor Sheriff's been injured.
What's the matter? Was my pa a little too rough on you? 
TROI: Data? 
DATA-ELI: What? 
TROI: Why is the computer creating characters that look like Data? 
WORF: Where have they taken my son? Where is he? 
DATA-ELI: Temper, temper, Sheriff. My pa ain't going to like if I come
home all bruised. 
TROI: Worf, wait. We have to remember, even though the holodeck
safeguards may be off, this is still a
programme. If we can just get to the end of this story the way it was
designed to play out, the programme will automatically terminate. 
WORF: You are right. I will begin by speaking to the people of this
town. Perhaps someone witnessed Alexander's abduction.

Captain's log, supplemental. Commander La Forge and
Mister Data believe they have found the cause of the mysterious
malfunctions which have been plaguing the ship. 
[Observation lounge]

LAFORGE: We think our interface experiment may have
caused one of the computer's core subroutines to be altered. 
DATA: When the interface malfunction occurred, subroutine C forty seven
was replaced by elements from my personal programming. 
RIKER: What does C forty seven control? 
LAFORGE: Library computer access, replicator selection, recreational
programming. No critical systems. 
DATA: That would explain why your music composition programme began
playing The Slavonic Dances. I have been analysing the collected works
of Antonin Dvorak. 
LAFORGE: It's the same with Doctor Crusher's play, and with the food
replicators. 
RIKER: The replicators on decks four through nine are producing nothing
but cat food. 
PICARD: Cat food? 
DATA: I have been formulating nutritional supplements for Spot. 
PICARD: When can you correct the problem? 
DATA: We are currently attempting to isolate the corrupt circuit
pathways. I reckon the process should take less then two hours. 
PICARD: What did you say? 
DATA: I said the process should take less than two hours. 
RIKER: No, you said I reckon. 
DATA: According to my memory log, I did not use those words. Ya'll must
be mistaken. 
LAFORGE: There, Data, you did it again. 
DATA: Did whut? 
PICARD: Mister La Forge, perhaps you should take Mister Data to
Engineering. See if you can find the problem. 
LAFORGE: Aye, sir. 
(Data walks with a cowhand's roll, and spits in the plant in the
corner) 

[Sheriff's office]

(in the cell, Eli is shuffling cards with Data's
speed) 
DATA-ELI: Can I help you with somethin? 
(there's a knock at the door. Troi lets Worf in) 
WORF: I spoke to several witnesses who saw Alexander being abducted as
he was leaving the bank by one of Hollander's men. We must begin a
systematic search of the town. 
TROI: Worf, we've got another problem. I saw Eli playing cards. He was
shuffling the way Data does when he plays poker. He doesn't just look
like Data, he has Data's abilities. Which means his father probably
does also. 
(another knock at the door. Troi gets her Winchester and Worf his
pistol, then lets in) 
DATA-FRANK: I've came to see my boy. 
WORF: Remove your weapon. 
(he does) 
DATA-FRANK: Better take a good look at that gun, Sheriff. You might be
seeing it again real soon. 
DATA-ELI: Pa? 
DATA-FRANK: Eli! How are they treating you, boy? 
DATA-ELI: Real bad, pa. They ain't fed me since I got here and the
Sheriff's been roughin up on me somethin fierce. 
DATA-FRANK: Don't you worry, boy. The Sheriff's going to pay. Who's the
stranger? 
DATA-ELI: Don't know. She ain't said her name. But she's in cahoots
with the Sheriff and she's mighty mean with that Winchester. 
DATA-FRANK: You sit tight, boy. I'll have you home in time for supper.
I'm going to give you one more opportunity, Sheriff, to avoid a ugly
situation. Release my boy. 
WORF: I have reconsidered your offer. I will release your son in
exchange for my deputy. 
DATA-FRANK: I thought you might have a change of heart. Meet me in two
hours. You be in front of the saloon. I'll be in front of the livery
station. Strangers ain't invited. 
WORF: Agreed. 
(Worf gives Frank his gun back and he leaves) 
TROI: In every Western I've ever read, the villains always break their
word. he can't be trusted. 
WORF: But we have made an honourable agreement. 
TROI: They're not concerned with honour, Worf. This is the Ancient
West. There's a gunfighter out there who has the speed and accuracy of
an android. And in two hours, he's going to try to kill you.

