DATA-FRANK TROI LAFORGE WORF RIKER DATA-MEXICAN ANNIE DATA-ELI DATA
point invited hand switches understood state forcefield mister gives

[Sheriff's office]

(in the cell, Eli is shuffling cards with Data's
speed) 
DATA-ELI: Can I help you with somethin? 
(there's a knock at the door. Troi lets Worf in) 
WORF: I spoke to several witnesses who saw Alexander being abducted as
he was leaving the bank by one of Hollander's men. We must begin a
systematic search of the town. 
TROI: Worf, we've got another problem. I saw Eli playing cards. He was
shuffling the way Data does when he plays poker. He doesn't just look
like Data, he has Data's abilities. Which means his father probably
does also. 
(another knock at the door. Troi gets her Winchester and Worf his
pistol, then lets in) 
DATA-FRANK: I've came to see my boy. 
WORF: Remove your weapon. 
(he does) 
DATA-FRANK: Better take a good look at that gun, Sheriff. You might be
seeing it again real soon. 
DATA-ELI: Pa? 
DATA-FRANK: Eli! How are they treating you, boy? 
DATA-ELI: Real bad, pa. They ain't fed me since I got here and the
Sheriff's been roughin up on me somethin fierce. 
DATA-FRANK: Don't you worry, boy. The Sheriff's going to pay. Who's the
stranger? 
DATA-ELI: Don't know. She ain't said her name. But she's in cahoots
with the Sheriff and she's mighty mean with that Winchester. 
DATA-FRANK: You sit tight, boy. I'll have you home in time for supper.
I'm going to give you one more opportunity, Sheriff, to avoid a ugly
situation. Release my boy. 
WORF: I have reconsidered your offer. I will release your son in
exchange for my deputy. 
DATA-FRANK: I thought you might have a change of heart. Meet me in two
hours. You be in front of the saloon. I'll be in front of the livery
station. Strangers ain't invited. 
WORF: Agreed. 
(Worf gives Frank his gun back and he leaves) 
TROI: In every Western I've ever read, the villains always break their
word. he can't be trusted. 
WORF: But we have made an honourable agreement. 
TROI: They're not concerned with honour, Worf. This is the Ancient
West. There's a gunfighter out there who has the speed and accuracy of
an android. And in two hours, he's going to try to kill you.

[Engineering]

(Geordi is working on Data's head) 
RIKER: Mister Data. 
DATA: Howdy, Commander. 
RIKER: Geordi, what have you found? 
DATA: Well, we figure part of my memory structure (normally) was
replaced with information from the computer's recreational data base. 
LAFORGE: Specifically, the files relating to the nineteenth century
American West. 
RIKER: That would explain the accent. 
DATA: You got it, partner. 
RIKER: This is a result of the experimental interface? 
LAFORGE: I'm afraid so. But we've initiated a progressive memory purge
to restore Data's programming to its original state. He should be back
to normal in a couple of hours. 
RIKER: And what about the computer's recreational data base? 
LAFORGE: We started a memory purge there as well. It'll take another
hour, maybe two. 
DATA: Commander. You just sit tight. We'll have this all fixed up in
time for supper. 
RIKER: Good.

[Sheriff's office]

(Worf is working on his tactics) 
WORF: I will be positioned here, at the eastern end of the street.
Frank Hollander says he will approach from this end. When he reaches
this point, he will be within range. 
TROI: Understood. What about Alexander? 
WORF: There's a rain barrel in front of the saloon. It should be enough
to stop the bullets. 
(knocking at the door) 
ANNIE: You would not believe what I went through to get old man Newsom
to give up his telegraph machine. 
(Worf looks the morse code transmitter over) 
WORF: Excellent. 
ANNIE: Lord knows why I keep risking my life for you, Sheriff. 
(Troi signals Worf to respond) 
WORF: Oh, yes. Thank you, Miss Annie. I am in your debt. 
(the clock chimes four) 
(now it is five fifteen) 
WORF: I have connected the communicator's energy cell to serve as the
power source. 
TROI: How long will the field last? 
WORF: No more than fifteen seconds. It is highly unstable. 
TROI: Let's hope it's enough.

[Deadwood street]

(Eli and Worf walk out onto the street. The
shopkeeper closes up and pulls down his blinds. The sun is on their
right. Frank and Alexander appear at the other end of the street.
Alexander is sent forward. then Eli. The Mexican and the outlaw now
look like Data as well, and come out of their hiding places. Eli and
Alexander cross in the middle of the street, then - ) 
DATA-FRANK: Eli, get down! 
WORF: Alexander! 
(Alexander runs for cover in the saloon, Worf switches on his personal
forcefield and Frank fires, emptying his pistol for nothing. The
forcefield switches off) 
(Troi gets the drop on the outlaw) 
TROI: Don't even think about it. 
DATA-MEXICAN: Senor Frank! 
(and throws Frank another pistol. We watch it in slow motion, and just
as Frank catches and starts to aim it, Worf shoots it out of his hand.
The Mexican goes into hiding again.) 
DATA-FRANK: Go ahead. Shoot me. 
WORF: Do not show your face in this town again. 
DATA-FRANK: Let's go. 
