TROI ELI LAFORGE WORF BANDITO ANNIE DATA ALEXANDER

[Gold Strike saloon]

(the piano player is doing his best, the poker
players are ignoring it, and someone is shooting up a wanted poster of
Eli Hollander) 
ELI: If I ever find the varmint who drew this, he'll be sorry he ever
put pen to paper. I'm ten times uglier than that, ain't I? 
(the Mexican laughs) 
ELI: Shut up. You laugh so much, it's a wonder you ain't got flies in
your mouth. 
BANDITO: You're a very funny man, Senor Eli. 
(Worf and Alexander enter) 
ALEXANDER: That's the bad guy. His name's Eli Hollander. They call him
the Butcher of Bozeman. He's killed twenty three men. He's the meanest
and the toughest gunslinger in the West. You have to watch him. He's
fast. 
WORF: So I am here to apprehend him? 
ALEXANDER: If you can. 
WORF: You are under arrest. 
ELI: Is that so. 
(Worf punches him in the face) 
WORF: You will come with me. 
ALEXANDER: No, no, no. Computer, freeze programme. 
WORF: What is wrong? 
ALEXANDER: That was too easy. It has to be harder to beat the bad guys.
Otherwise, it's no fun. Computer, increase
programme difficulty to level four. Go back to where my father and I
first walked into the saloon. Come on, Father. 
(Alexander and Worf leave) 
ELI: If I ever find the varmint who drew this, he'll be sorry he ever
put pen to paper. I'm ten times uglier than that, ain't I? 
(the Mexican laughs) 
ELI: Shut up. You laugh so much, it's a wonder you ain't got flies in
your mouth. 
BANDITO: You're a very funny man, Senor Eli. 
(Worf and Alexander enter. This time the piano player stops, and the
poker players get up and leave) 
WORF: Where are they going? 
ALEXANDER: They don't want to get hit by the bullets. 
WORF: You are under arrest. 
ELI: Well, looks like Sheriff Worf's here to arrest me. That don't
sound like a bright idea. 
(Eli has gone to the bar, the Mexican is over on Worf's left) 
ELI: Do it? 
WORF: You have been accused of committing a homicide. 
ELI: If you mean murder, then I guess I'm guilty. I've killed twenty
three men, Sheriff. One more ain't
going to make much of a difference. Of course, shooting someone as ugly
as you couldn't be considered a crime, could it? Was you just born that
way, or did your momma marry an armadillo? 
(a man behind Worf picks up a chair) 
ALEXANDER: Sheriff, look out! 
(Worf is hit by the chair, but just turns and thumps his attacker. Then
he punches out the Mexican.) 
WORF: I'm beginning to see the appeal of this programme. 
ELI: Don't twitch a whisker, Sheriff, unless you want a shave. (his gun
is drawn) Okay, boys. Saddle up. But first, get their money and
jewellry. 
WORF: You are a murderer and a thief. 
ELI: A man's got to make a living. 
(Eli's hat it blown off by a gunshot from the doorway) 
TROI: I suggest you find a new line of work. 
ALEXANDER: I asked Counsellor Troi to join us. She loves Western
stories. 
ELI: You'll regret this, stranger. 
(Eli twirls his pistol back and forth before holstering it.)

[Engineering]

DATA: I am now attempting to access the long range
sensor array. 
LAFORGE: Forward sensor array coming online. We're getting a clear
scan. 
DATA: I will perform a routine maintenance check on the starboard
inertial damping system. 
LAFORGE: Dampers online. Maintenance check in progress. Data, I think
we're on to something here. Let's see what you can do with secondary
systems. Try gravitational control. 
DATA: Initiating gravitational 
(Data twitches) 
LAFORGE: What's wrong? 
DATA: There appears to be an energy fluctuation in my neural net. I am
disconnecting my interface to the computer. Interface deactivated. 
LAFORGE: You all right? 
DATA: I have experienced a brief power surge in my positronic
subprocessor. But I am fine. 
LAFORGE: (disconnecting Data) Maybe the interface coding isn't as
stable than we thought. Looks like we've got a couple of hours of
systems analysis before we can try this again. Let's check the
interface programming. 
(Data picks up a tricorder, flips it over, then pushes it down into his
'holster')

[Sheriff's office ]

(Eli is in the jail) 
WORF: What are his rights in this century? Is there be a trial or shall
I execute him? 
ALEXANDER: We're supposed to hold him until the US Marshal comes, and
then we'll take him to Rapid City for a trial. 
ELI: Frankly, I don't think I'll be around here that long. Not after my
old man hears about this. 
WORF: What old man are you referring to? 
ELI: My pa. When he breaks me out of this tin can, the gravedigger'll
be working overtime. 
ALEXANDER: Your pa's no match for Sheriff Worf. 
WORF: Yes. When your pa comes, we will be ready for him. 
TROI: (lighting a cigar) He's right. You're no match for the
Hollanders. 
WORF: I am sure the three of us can handle any problems. 
TROI: Hold on. I was just passing through town, saw a little trouble,
thought I'd lend a hand. But I ain't one of your deputies, Sheriff. 
WORF: Counsellor, I would appreciate some support in this matter. 
TROI: Durango. I'm called Durango. 
WORF: Yes, er, Counsellor Durango, perhaps you would consider becoming
a temporary deputy? 
TROI: For a price. Five hundred dollars. 
WORF: Alexander we require large amounts of currency. 
ALEXANDER: Yes, sir. I'll go to the bank and make a withdrawal. 
(Alexander leaves) 
WORF: Deanna, how do you know so much about this period in Earth's
history? 
TROI: My father used to read me stories from the Ancient West when I
was a little girl. I must admit, I always wanted to play the part of
the mysterious stranger. 
(the saloon owner, a buxom middle-aged woman, enters and kisses Worf) 
ANNIE: You are so brave, facing down that evil man like you did. 
WORF: Why hank you. Miss? 
ANNIE: Annie, you big galoot. You best not forget that tonight, 'cos
I'm going to make you beef steak and some gooseberry cobbler for
dessert. 
TROI: Sounds delicious. 
ANNIE: And I bought some special candles for the table setting. Pure
beeswax. 
WORF: I will not be able to come this evening. I have a prisoner. 
TROI: I'll watch him for you, Sheriff. You two go have a good time. 
WORF: That's very considerate of you, but I would be negligent in my
duties if I did not stay. I am sorry, Miss Annie. 
ANNIE: It's another woman, ain't it? It's that floozy down there at
Miss Langford's house of pleasure. 
WORF: Who? 
(Annie slaps Worf's face and leaves) 
ELI: You sure got a way with women, Sheriff.

