DATAMEXICAN TROI LAFORGE WORF RIKER ANNIE DATA DATAFRANK DATAANNIE ALEXANDER

[Engineering]

(Geordi is working on Data's head) 
RIKER: Mister Data. 
DATA: Howdy, Commander. 
RIKER: Geordi, what have you found? 
DATA: Well, we figure part of my memory structure (normally) was
replaced with information from the computer's recreational data base. 
LAFORGE: Specifically, the files relating to the nineteenth century
American West. 
RIKER: That would explain the accent. 
DATA: You got it, partner. 
RIKER: This is a result of the experimental interface? 
LAFORGE: I'm afraid so. But we've initiated a progressive memory purge
to restore Data's programming to its original state. He should be back
to normal in a couple of hours. 
RIKER: And what about the computer's recreational data base? 
LAFORGE: We started a memory purge there as well. It'll take another
hour, maybe two. 
DATA: Commander. You just sit tight. We'll have this all fixed up in
time for supper. 
RIKER: Good.

[Sheriff's office]

(Worf is working on his tactics) 
WORF: I will be positioned here, at the eastern end of the street.
Frank Hollander says he will approach from this end. When he reaches
this point, he will be within range. 
TROI: Understood. What about Alexander? 
WORF: There's a rain barrel in front of the saloon. It should be enough
to stop the bullets. 
(knocking at the door) 
ANNIE: You would not believe what I went through to get old man Newsom
to give up his telegraph machine. 
(Worf looks the morse code transmitter over) 
WORF: Excellent. 
ANNIE: Lord knows why I keep risking my life for you, Sheriff. 
(Troi signals Worf to respond) 
WORF: Oh, yes. Thank you, Miss Annie. I am in your debt. 
(the clock chimes four) 
(now it is five fifteen) 
WORF: I have connected the communicator's energy cell to serve as the
power source. 
TROI: How long will the field last? 
WORF: No more than fifteen seconds. It is highly unstable. 
TROI: Let's hope it's enough.

[Deadwood street]

(Eli and Worf walk out onto the street. The
shopkeeper closes up and pulls down his blinds. The sun is on their
right. Frank and Alexander appear at the other end of the street.
Alexander is sent forward. then Eli. The Mexican and the outlaw now
look like Data as well, and come out of their hiding places. Eli and
Alexander cross in the middle of the street, then - ) 
DATA-FRANK: Eli, get down! 
WORF: Alexander! 
(Alexander runs for cover in the saloon, Worf switches on his personal
forcefield and Frank fires, emptying his pistol for nothing. The
forcefield switches off) 
(Troi gets the drop on the outlaw) 
TROI: Don't even think about it. 
DATA-MEXICAN: Senor Frank! 
(and throws Frank another pistol. We watch it in slow motion, and just
as Frank catches and starts to aim it, Worf shoots it out of his hand.
The Mexican goes into hiding again.) 
DATA-FRANK: Go ahead. Shoot me. 
WORF: Do not show your face in this town again. 
DATA-FRANK: Let's go. 
[Gold Strike saloon]

ALEXANDER: Father! 
WORF: Are you all right? 
ALEXANDER: Yes. 
WORF: End programme. 
TROI: I don't understand this. The story should be over. What's left? 
WORF: Computer, end programme. 
DATA-ANNIE: Sheriff! You're as handy with a shooting iron as you are
with a woman's heart. 
WORF: (panic-stricken) Computer, end programme! Computer! Now! 
(Annie hugs him, and the programme ends. Worf is visibly relieved)

Captain's log, stardate 46278.3. Both Commander
Data and the ship's computer have been restored to normal operation.
Our rendezvous with the supply ship Biko has proceeded as planned.

