FARALLON LAFORGE DATA [OC]
shakes longer working ll question planet concentrate factor make

[Particle fountain laboratory]

(a satellite in orbit above the planet, with a beam
of blue energy going down to the surface) 
LAFORGE: Doctor Farallon. The original design called for the particle
fountain to lift five hundred kilograms per minute from the surface. So
far we haven't come close to that. 
FARALLON: (an alien lady) Well, that's why I want to increase the
stream density. That should boost the lift capacity by seventy two
percent. 
LAFORGE: Yeah, but you realise of course you're going to be overloading
the field generators in the process. 
FARALLON: Not if we distribute the overload evenly throughout the
system. 
LAFORGE: Doctor, forgive me, but maybe we should concentrate on
completing this phase of the project before we start talking about re
designing it. 
FARALLON: Commander, I know you're here to evaluate this project. 
LAFORGE: Starfleet is considering using a particle fountain on Carema
Three. They want to know how feasible it is. 
FARALLON: And will your opinion be the deciding factor? 
LAFORGE: No, not really. I'll make my report to Captain Picard. He'll
make the official recommendation to Starfleet. They'll decide. 
FARALLON: What's your feeling so far? 
LAFORGE: Well, it seems to me the question we should be asking is, is
this technology is more efficient than conventional mining techniques? 
FARALLON: Commander I know we've had problems here. It seems like
nothing's gone right. It's taking a lot longer than I thought to get
the particle stream to full strength. But I know it can work. This is
the direction that mining is going to take in the future, and it should
be implemented on Carema Three. 
LAFORGE: I know this can be potentially very exciting. 
FARALLON: All right, I want to show you something I've been working on.
Something that might help us complete this project more quickly. I've
used these on a limited basis 
(everything shakes, alarms go off) 
DATA [OC]: Enterprise to Commander La Forge.

