RIKER FARALLON LAFORGE PICARD KELSO DATA

[Transporter room]

RIKER [OC]: Energize. 
[Bridge]

RIKER: Mister Kelso? 
[Transporter room]

KELSO: I'm sorry, sir. The transporter system just
went dead. There's some kind of malfunction. 
[Bridge]

RIKER: Run a diagnostic immediately. Try bypassing
the 
DATA: Commander, that will not be necessary. The transporter is not
malfunctioning. I have locked out the controls.

[Observation lounge]

RIKER: I gave you a direct order, Mister Data. You
release that transporter lockout now. 
DATA: I cannot do that, sir. 
RIKER: If you don't do it, I will relieve you of duty. 
DATA: That is your prerogative, sir. Under Starfleet regulations,
direct insubordination is a court martial offence. But I will not
release the transporter. 
RIKER: Data, those are two of your friends out there. They have saved
your life more times than I can remember. I can't believe you'd be
willing to sacrifice them like this. 
DATA: Commander, please do not think this is an arbitrary decision. I
have considered the ramifications of my actions carefully, and I do not
believe it is justifiable to sacrifice one life form for another. 
RIKER: You don't know that the exocomps are life forms. 
DATA: It is true I am acting on my personal beliefs, but I do not see
how I can do otherwise. 
RIKER: You're risking a lot on the basis of a belief. 
DATA: I have observed that humans often base their judgments on what is
referred to as instinct or intuition. Because I am a machine, I lack
that particular ability. However it may be possible that I have insight
into other machines that humans lack. 
RIKER: If there were a way to save the Captain and Geordi without
destroying the exocomps, I would jump on it, but we have run out of
time and this is the only solution I've got. 
DATA: Then let me offer an alternative. Transport me to the station, I
will attempt a complete manual shut down of the particle stream. 
RIKER: The radiation levels are too high, even for you. Your positronic
net would ionise in no time. I can't let you sacrifice yourself. 
DATA: Commander, if I give my life to save my fellow officers, that is
my choice. The exocomps no longer have a choice. 
RIKER: Then what if we re-connect their command pathways and we give
them a choice? You've assumed the exocomps would shut down before
accepting this mission. What if we ask them if they are willing to
proceed. 
DATA: That sounds reasonable, sir. If they choose to go, I would be
willing to release the transporter lock out. 
RIKER: Fair enough.

[Transporter room]

FARALLON: All right. I've enabled their command
pathways. 
DATA: If the exocomps do not shut down after I have programmed them, we
may assume they are willing to go. 
(the exocomps flash their lights, wave their little antennae and beep
at each other) 
RIKER: What does that mean? Are they willing to go or not? 
FARALLON: They haven't shut down. 
DATA: They seem to be re-programming the commands I have entered. 
RIKER: Reprogramming them? 
DATA: Clearly, they unwilling to be transported into the stream for
detonation, although they may have an alternate solution. 
FARALLON: Something we haven't considered? Are you suggesting they have
superior intelligence? 
DATA: No, Doctor, but they do have superior experience. During their
service, they have interfaced with every part of the station core,
something none of us has done, including yourself. They may have
another way to control the particle surge. 
(the exocomps create their tools for the job) 
DATA: Those appear to be power taps. 
KELSO: Sir, new coordinates are being fed to the transporter by the
exocomps. The coordinates are inside the station core. 
RIKER: Kelso, energise. 
KELSO: Aye, sir.

[Particle fountain laboratory]

(Picard sees the exocomps beam in around the core
on the other side of the force field) 
PICARD: Mister La Forge. 
LAFORGE: What are they up to? 
PICARD: The exocomps are siphoning power from the core. 
LAFORGE: They're trying to distort the particle stream frequency. That
might open up a window that the Enterprise can use to beam us out. If
they can modulate the radiation field, it'll work, but they'll have to
get the sub-harmonic frequencies to resonance. The particle stream
frequency is beginning to fluctuate. They're having a little difficulty
controlling the feedback. It may be more power than they can handle. 
PICARD: Can we help them? Is there any way we can moderate the power
transfer? 
LAFORGE: No, sir. We've done all that we can do. It's up to them now.
They're balancing the power absorption rates. It's working. The
particle stream is beginning to distort. Almost at resonance. They've
got it. 
PICARD: Drop the force field.

