FARALLON LAFORGE PICARD COMPUTER PIERSON DATA

[Engineering]

FARALLON: We've been using devices like this on
Tyrus Seven for years. The basic unit is a common industrial servo
mechanism. A few years ago I started tinkering with one. This is the
result. 
LAFORGE: Boridium power converter. Axionic chip network. It's very
impressive. In terms of sheer computational speed, this little guy
might be able to compete with you, Data. 
FARALLON: Oh, the exocomps don't come close to Data's sophistication. 
DATA: Exocomps? 
FARALLON: That's what I call them. Let's say you had an anti-matter
flow converter that was fluctuating. How would you repair it? 
DATA: The correct procedure would be to adjust the converter. 
FARALLON: With what? 
DATA: A mode stabiliser. 
FARALLON: Okay. Let me input the problem into the exocomp. A
fluctuating anti-matter flow converter. Now, let's see what happens. 
(the little machine materialises a tool to use) 
LAFORGE: A mode stabilizer. Very nice. 
DATA: You have incorporated a micro-replication system into the device
in order to fashion tools. 
FARALLON: It's more than that. I designed the exocomps to be problem
solvers. Whenever they perform a task they've never done before, the
micro-replicator creates new circuit pathways within the unit's memory.

DATA: So in a sense, they are learning. 
FARALLON: Exactly. The more situations they encounter, the more circuit
pathways they build. They become better tools as they work. 
LAFORGE: It's impressive technology, that's for sure. Once it's out of
the experimental stage, there'll be plenty of applications. 
FARALLON: Commander, I'm hoping the experimental stage is over. When
are we supposed to brief Captain Picard on the status of the particle
fountain? 
LAFORGE: At sixteen hundred hours. 
FARALLON: Good. I'll have a proposal to make.

[Ready room]

FARALLON: Captain, I know you're supposed to give
your evaluation to Starfleet today. I'd like you to postpone that
report another forty eight hours. 
PICARD: The Enterprise is scheduled to leave the Tyran system tomorrow.
If I'm to change that plan, I'll need a very good reason. 
FARALLON: I realise that, sir. If you're going to make a recommendation
to Starfleet about using the particle fountain on Carema, it seems only
fair that you should see it operating at full strength. 
PICARD: Agreed. 
FARALLON: I think I can complete the project and boost the efficiency
of the particle stream if I use exocomps, the new devices I've
constructed. 
PICARD: I understand one of these devices successfully repaired a
faulty power grid. 
FARALLON: Yes, sir. I've been testing them on a limited basis, but I
think they're ready to be used on a larger scale. 
PICARD: Mister La Forge, what are your thoughts? 
LAFORGE: Well, I guess the only risk is in falling even further behind.

FARALLON: I'm willing to take that risk. 
PICARD: Mister Data? 
DATA: Exocomps are highly sophisticated devices, sir. If they perform
up to expectation, their potential to advance this project is
considerable. 
PICARD: I'm inclined to agree. I don't think that forty eight hours is
too much time to risk particularly when the gains areso substantial.
You may proceed, Doctor. 
FARALLON: Thank you, sir. If possible, I'd like Commander Data to work
with me. 
DATA: Thank you, Doctor. I welcome the opportunity.

[Particle fountain laboratory]

(the exocomp finishes work on a circuit board) 
FARALLON: Commander, there's a plasma conduit in one of the access
tunnels that's ready to be sealed. It's the perfect job for an exocomp.

DATA: I agree, Doctor. 
FARALLON: Well, Mister Data, what is your analysis so far? 
DATA: I have successfully completed fourteen separate tasks with this
exocomp in the past hour. I estimate it would take two people nine
hours to complete the same tasks. I would characterise the unit's
performance as excellent. 
FARALLON: I hope Commander La Forge and Captain Picard agree with you. 
DATA: I am confident they will. Commander La Forge is especially 
(the exocomp comes back out of the access tube) 
FARALLON: It didn't finish sealing the plasma conduit. Let me end it
back in. 
DATA: It is not accepting your commands. 
FARALLON: Maybe there's a malfunction in the control processor. Let me
see if I can override it. 
(she drops the control pad) 
DATA: Doctor. 
FARALLON: I'm all right. The control pad just overloaded. What's the
matter with this thing? 
(then an explosion comes out of the access tube)

Second officer's log, stardate 46315.5. The
unexplained behaviour of the exocomp has greatly puzzled both Doctor
Farallon and myself. We have brought the defective unit to the
Enterprise for investigation.

[Engineering]

(they wire up the exocomp to a wall display) 
FARALLON: The exocomp came out of the plasma conduit. We tried to
override the commands and send it back in, but it just shut down. It's
been completely unresponsive ever since. 
LAFORGE: Well, let's see what our computer has to say. 
DATA: Geordi, the interface circuitry which links the exocomp to the
control pad is completely burned out. 
LAFORGE: That's strange. is there any evidence of secondary power
surges? 
DATA: No. 
LAFORGE: But what's going on there? Data, increase the magnification of
section gamma four. 
DATA: Interesting. The number of new circuit pathways has increased by
six hundred thirty two percent. 
FARALLON: Oh, no. 
LAFORGE: What is it? 
FARALLON: Sometimes an exocomp starts forming large numbers of new
pathways totally at random. Eventually, it reaches a point where it
shuts down. Just like this one. 
DATA: Doctor, the new pathways do not appear to be interfering with the
original circuitry. 
FARALLON: Once the exocomp is this badly corrupted, it's useless. You
have to erase the unit and start all over again, and there's no time
for that now. 
LAFORGE: That leaves you with only two. It's going to slow you down. 
FARALLON: Yes, Commander. You have the right to point out that you told
me so. 
LAFORGE: I only wanted to say that we'd be happy to add on an extra
shift to pick up the slack. 
FARALLON: I'm sorry. I guess I'm touchy these days. 
LAFORGE: It's okay. You've got a lot on your shoulders. 
FARALLON: Well, I'd better get back to it. Thanks, Commander. 
(Farallon leaves) 
LAFORGE: I feel sorry for her. This project has had nothing but
problems. Why did that plasma conduit explode? 
DATA: Apparently there was a micro-fracture in the conduit wall. The
fault did not register on our instruments. 
LAFORGE: I guess it's a good thing the exocomp malfunctioned. Almost
seems like it knew just when to leave. 
DATA: Geordi, are you implying the exocomp exhibited some form of
self-preservation? 
LAFORGE: Of course not. 
PIERSON [OC]: Lieutenant Pierson to Commander La Forge. Sir, could you
join us in the systems monitor room? 
LAFORGE: On my way.

[Data's quarters]

DATA: Computer perform a level one diagnostic of
the exocomp's command module. 
COMPUTER: The command pathways are functioning normally. 
DATA: How can that be, if the interface circuitry is burned out? 
COMPUTER: The interface circuitry has been repaired. 
DATA: Curious. Computer, access the exocomp's sensor logs. Confirm that
there was a failure of the interface circuitry within the last twelve
hours. 
COMPUTER: Confirmed. Interface failure occurred at eleven hundred fifty
hours today, when the exocomp produced a power surge which burned out
the linkage. 
DATA: How and when was it repaired? 
COMPUTER: The exocomp activated a self-repair programme at thirteen
hundred forty hours. 
DATA: Why would the exocomp burn out its own interface circuitry and
repair it two hours later? 
COMPUTER: Unknown.

