RIKER FARALLON LAFORGE WORF PICARD KELSO DATA

[Transporter room]

KELSO: I'm trying, sir. I can't establish a pattern
lock. 
FARALLON: Commander we barely managed to transport off ourselves. The
field ionisation is too intense. 
[Bridge]

DATA: Commander, the particle fountain is
continuing to surge. At the present rate, the radiation in the station
core will reach fatal levels in twenty three minutes.

[Particle fountain laboratory]

LAFORGE: Captain, if I can access the field
emitters, we should be able to establish a force field. See if you can
link your console to my command system sub-routine. 
PICARD: All right. Link established. 
LAFORGE: Okay, here we go. 
PICARD: I'm reading power fluctuations. The force field is not stable. 
LAFORGE: Yeah, I know. The radiation levels are too high. The emitters
are beginning to deteriorate. 
PICARD: How long can we expect it to last? 
LAFORGE: Not very long. 
PICARD: We have to keep it up long enough for Commander Riker to get to
us. 
LAFORGE: Maybe we can help him out. See if you can access the emergency
shut down routine. I'll try to activate the ionic dampers.

[Bridge]

DATA: A force field was activated on the station a
few moments ago. It is possible that Commander La Forge has established
a low intensity deflector field. 
RIKER: It won't last long in that radiation. 
DATA: No, sir. My readings indicate that it will fail in approximately
twenty two minutes. 
(Farallon enters) 
RIKER: Okay, we've got twenty two minutes. I want some options. 
WORF: Can we send a shuttlecraft to evacuate them? 
FARALLON: We'd never get there in time. 
RIKER: Then we need to shut down the particle fountain. What if we
detonated a low yield photon torpedo within the particle stream?
Wouldn't that shut it down? 
FARALLON: We'd have to configure the torpedo very carefully. The shape
of the shock wave would be critical. But it could work. 
RIKER: How long would it take to set that up? 
DATA: I estimate that it would take a minimum of sixty five minutes to
properly configure the torpedo. 
RIKER: We don't have that kind of time. 
FARALLON: Commander, maybe the exocomps can help us. I can programme
their boridium power cells to explode on command. They can be
configured just like a photon torpedo, but it would only take a couple
of minutes. 
DATA: Commander. I must object to that plan. 
RIKER: Data, we've been through this. We tested the exocomp and it
failed. 
DATA: Doctor Crusher and I discovered that the exocomp did not fail the
test. It is still my belief we are dealing with a new life form. 
RIKER: Mister Data, you know how much I respect your judgment, but I
can't risk the Captain and Geordi on the basis of your belief. Prepare
the exocomp, Doctor. 
DATA: Commander, if I am correct, the exocomps will not allow
themselves to be destroyed. They have a sense of survival, and they
will shut down before they will comply with the order. 
FARALLON: I could disconnect their command pathways before I programme
them. 
RIKER: Do it.

[Transporter room]

(three exocomps sit on the pads) 
FARALLON: Commander Riker, we're ready.

