KELSO FARALLON DATA LAFORGE
repairs head malfunction stabiliser years replication returns learning arising

[Particle fountain laboratory]

LAFORGE: We're fine, Data. The power grid is fully
restored. 
(the exocomp returns) 
LAFORGE: The malfunction seems to have been repaired and operations
over here at the station are all back to normal. 
[Bridge]

DATA: How were you able to accomplish the repair so
quickly?

[Particle fountain laboratory]

LAFORGE: You know, I'm not exactly sure.

Captain's log, stardate 46315.2. Repairs to the
particle fountain seem to have succeeded and it is now functioning
smoothly. Doctor Farallon is coming aboard to demonstrate the device
that carried out the repairs. 
[Transporter room]

DATA: Energise. 
KELSO: Aye, sir. 
(La Forge, Farallon and an exocomp are beamed aboard) 
DATA: Welcome to the Enterprise, Doctor. I am Lieutenant Commander
Data. 
FARALLON: Mister Data, I was hoping I'd have a chance to meet you. I've
done extensive studies of your positronic network. 
DATA: And I have studied your design for the particle fountain. I find
the concept to be highly innovative. 
FARALLON: Thank you. 
DATA: I am curious how you were able to repair the power grid so
quickly. 
FARALLON: This should make it clear, Commander. 
LAFORGE: Why don't we set up in Engineering. 
FARALLON: Is it true that your computational speed is limited only by
the physical separation of your positronic links? 
DATA: Actually, that is no longer the case. I have recently converted
my interlink sequencer to asynchronous operation, which removed the
performance constraint. 
LAFORGE: Doctor, this way please. 
FARALLON: I see. But how did you resolve the signal fragmentation? 
(as they head out into the corridor) 
DATA: The interlink sequencer is now bi-directional. It compensates for
the asynchronous mode distortion arising from the resonant field. 
FARALLON: Yes. That's fascinating. Does the sequencer require any
buffering system to eliminate interference?

[Engineering]

FARALLON: We've been using devices like this on
Tyrus Seven for years. The basic unit is a common industrial servo
mechanism. A few years ago I started tinkering with one. This is the
result. 
LAFORGE: Boridium power converter. Axionic chip network. It's very
impressive. In terms of sheer computational speed, this little guy
might be able to compete with you, Data. 
FARALLON: Oh, the exocomps don't come close to Data's sophistication. 
DATA: Exocomps? 
FARALLON: That's what I call them. Let's say you had an anti-matter
flow converter that was fluctuating. How would you repair it? 
DATA: The correct procedure would be to adjust the converter. 
FARALLON: With what? 
DATA: A mode stabiliser. 
FARALLON: Okay. Let me input the problem into the exocomp. A
fluctuating anti-matter flow converter. Now, let's see what happens. 
(the little machine materialises a tool to use) 
LAFORGE: A mode stabilizer. Very nice. 
DATA: You have incorporated a micro-replication system into the device
in order to fashion tools. 
FARALLON: It's more than that. I designed the exocomps to be problem
solvers. Whenever they perform a task they've never done before, the
micro-replicator creates new circuit pathways within the unit's memory.

DATA: So in a sense, they are learning. 
FARALLON: Exactly. The more situations they encounter, the more circuit
pathways they build. They become better tools as they work. 
LAFORGE: It's impressive technology, that's for sure. Once it's out of
the experimental stage, there'll be plenty of applications. 
FARALLON: Commander, I'm hoping the experimental stage is over. When
are we supposed to brief Captain Picard on the status of the particle
fountain? 
LAFORGE: At sixteen hundred hours. 
FARALLON: Good. I'll have a proposal to make.

