FARALLON PICARD KELSO DATA LAFORGE

[Particle fountain laboratory]

LAFORGE: You know, I'm not exactly sure.

Captain's log, stardate 46315.2. Repairs to the
particle fountain seem to have succeeded and it is now functioning
smoothly. Doctor Farallon is coming aboard to demonstrate the device
that carried out the repairs. 
[Transporter room]

DATA: Energise. 
KELSO: Aye, sir. 
(La Forge, Farallon and an exocomp are beamed aboard) 
DATA: Welcome to the Enterprise, Doctor. I am Lieutenant Commander
Data. 
FARALLON: Mister Data, I was hoping I'd have a chance to meet you. I've
done extensive studies of your positronic network. 
DATA: And I have studied your design for the particle fountain. I find
the concept to be highly innovative. 
FARALLON: Thank you. 
DATA: I am curious how you were able to repair the power grid so
quickly. 
FARALLON: This should make it clear, Commander. 
LAFORGE: Why don't we set up in Engineering. 
FARALLON: Is it true that your computational speed is limited only by
the physical separation of your positronic links? 
DATA: Actually, that is no longer the case. I have recently converted
my interlink sequencer to asynchronous operation, which removed the
performance constraint. 
LAFORGE: Doctor, this way please. 
FARALLON: I see. But how did you resolve the signal fragmentation? 
(as they head out into the corridor) 
DATA: The interlink sequencer is now bi-directional. It compensates for
the asynchronous mode distortion arising from the resonant field. 
FARALLON: Yes. That's fascinating. Does the sequencer require any
buffering system to eliminate interference?

[Engineering]

FARALLON: We've been using devices like this on
Tyrus Seven for years. The basic unit is a common industrial servo
mechanism. A few years ago I started tinkering with one. This is the
result. 
LAFORGE: Boridium power converter. Axionic chip network. It's very
impressive. In terms of sheer computational speed, this little guy
might be able to compete with you, Data. 
FARALLON: Oh, the exocomps don't come close to Data's sophistication. 
DATA: Exocomps? 
FARALLON: That's what I call them. Let's say you had an anti-matter
flow converter that was fluctuating. How would you repair it? 
DATA: The correct procedure would be to adjust the converter. 
FARALLON: With what? 
DATA: A mode stabiliser. 
FARALLON: Okay. Let me input the problem into the exocomp. A
fluctuating anti-matter flow converter. Now, let's see what happens. 
(the little machine materialises a tool to use) 
LAFORGE: A mode stabilizer. Very nice. 
DATA: You have incorporated a micro-replication system into the device
in order to fashion tools. 
FARALLON: It's more than that. I designed the exocomps to be problem
solvers. Whenever they perform a task they've never done before, the
micro-replicator creates new circuit pathways within the unit's memory.

DATA: So in a sense, they are learning. 
FARALLON: Exactly. The more situations they encounter, the more circuit
pathways they build. They become better tools as they work. 
LAFORGE: It's impressive technology, that's for sure. Once it's out of
the experimental stage, there'll be plenty of applications. 
FARALLON: Commander, I'm hoping the experimental stage is over. When
are we supposed to brief Captain Picard on the status of the particle
fountain? 
LAFORGE: At sixteen hundred hours. 
FARALLON: Good. I'll have a proposal to make.

[Ready room]

FARALLON: Captain, I know you're supposed to give
your evaluation to Starfleet today. I'd like you to postpone that
report another forty eight hours. 
PICARD: The Enterprise is scheduled to leave the Tyran system tomorrow.
If I'm to change that plan, I'll need a very good reason. 
FARALLON: I realise that, sir. If you're going to make a recommendation
to Starfleet about using the particle fountain on Carema, it seems only
fair that you should see it operating at full strength. 
PICARD: Agreed. 
FARALLON: I think I can complete the project and boost the efficiency
of the particle stream if I use exocomps, the new devices I've
constructed. 
PICARD: I understand one of these devices successfully repaired a
faulty power grid. 
FARALLON: Yes, sir. I've been testing them on a limited basis, but I
think they're ready to be used on a larger scale. 
PICARD: Mister La Forge, what are your thoughts? 
LAFORGE: Well, I guess the only risk is in falling even further behind.

FARALLON: I'm willing to take that risk. 
PICARD: Mister Data? 
DATA: Exocomps are highly sophisticated devices, sir. If they perform
up to expectation, their potential to advance this project is
considerable. 
PICARD: I'm inclined to agree. I don't think that forty eight hours is
too much time to risk particularly when the gains areso substantial.
You may proceed, Doctor. 
FARALLON: Thank you, sir. If possible, I'd like Commander Data to work
with me. 
DATA: Thank you, Doctor. I welcome the opportunity.

[Particle fountain laboratory]

(the exocomp finishes work on a circuit board) 
FARALLON: Commander, there's a plasma conduit in one of the access
tunnels that's ready to be sealed. It's the perfect job for an exocomp.

DATA: I agree, Doctor. 
FARALLON: Well, Mister Data, what is your analysis so far? 
DATA: I have successfully completed fourteen separate tasks with this
exocomp in the past hour. I estimate it would take two people nine
hours to complete the same tasks. I would characterise the unit's
performance as excellent. 
FARALLON: I hope Commander La Forge and Captain Picard agree with you. 
DATA: I am confident they will. Commander La Forge is especially 
(the exocomp comes back out of the access tube) 
FARALLON: It didn't finish sealing the plasma conduit. Let me end it
back in. 
DATA: It is not accepting your commands. 
FARALLON: Maybe there's a malfunction in the control processor. Let me
see if I can override it. 
(she drops the control pad) 
DATA: Doctor. 
FARALLON: I'm all right. The control pad just overloaded. What's the
matter with this thing? 
(then an explosion comes out of the access tube)

Second officer's log, stardate 46315.5. The
unexplained behaviour of the exocomp has greatly puzzled both Doctor
Farallon and myself. We have brought the defective unit to the
Enterprise for investigation.

