TROI FARALLON LAFORGE WORF PICARD CRUSHER DATA
chances create possibility arm environment moment struggle growing instincts

[Ten Forward]

LAFORGE: Here you are. I thought you'd be hard at
work by now. 
FARALLON: I wanted a quiet cup of tea before I went back. Gathering
strength, I guess. 
LAFORGE: I've come to tell you I've assigned two engineering teams to
work on the particle fountain. 
FARALLON: Thank you, Commander. I'm grateful. 
LAFORGE: You know, I really want you to know that I do admire the work
that you've done. And I'm sorry the exocomps aren't working out. 
FARALLON: You were right. I'm trying to move too fast. I guess I lack
that conservative streak most scientists have. I always seem to be out
there on the edge, taking chances. 
LAFORGE: You know, I'll bet you were the kind of little girl who was
always climbing one branch higher than the other kids. 
FARALLON: Anything to get to the top of the tree. 
LAFORGE: And I bet you never fell. 
FARALLON: Oh, no I fell all the time. Usually breaking a bone in the
process. I just never let it stop me. 
LAFORGE: Well, if it comes down to sheer determination, I know you'll
get this particle fountain built. 
FARALLON: You're right about that, Commander. I've spent the last six
years of my life on this project. It's the first thought I have when I
wake up, and the last before I go to bed. Whatever it takes to prove
this technology, I'll do it.

[Sickbay]

(Crusher is making repairs to her own right arm) 
WORF: Doctor, if you wish to master the bat'telh sword, you must learn
to strike and avoid in the same motion. 
CRUSHER: I almost got in under your guard, Worf. 
WORF: Almost. 
CRUSHER: Well, I'll keep that in mind next lesson. 
(Data enters) 
DATA: Doctor, are you injured? 
CRUSHER: Only my pride, Data. (to Worf) Thanks. 
(Worf leaves) 
DATA: Doctor, what is the definition of life? 
CRUSHER: (pause) That is a big question. Why do you ask? 
DATA: I am searching for a definition that will allow me to test an
hypothesis. 
[Crusher's office]

CRUSHER: Well, the broadest scientific definition
might be that life is what enables plants and animals to consume food,
derive energy from it, grow, adapt themselves to their surroundings and
reproduce. 
DATA: And you suggest that anything which exhibits these
characteristics is considered alive? 
CRUSHER: In general, yes. 
DATA: What about fire? 
CRUSHER: Fire? 
DATA: Yes. It consumes fuel to produce energy, it grows, it creates
offspring. By your definition, is it alive? 
CRUSHER: Fire is a chemical reaction. You could use the same argument
for growing crystals, but obviously we don't consider them alive. 
DATA: And what about me? I do not grow. I do not reproduce. I am
considered to be alive. 
CRUSHER: That's true, but you are unique. 
DATA: I wonder if that is so. 
CRUSHER: Data, if I may ask. Have a seat. What exactly are youe getting
at? 
DATA: I am curious as to what transpired between the moment when I was
nothing more than an assemblage of parts in Doctor Soong's laboratory,
and the next moment, when I became alive. What was it that endowed me
with life? 
CRUSHER: I remember Wesley asking me a similar question when he was
little, and I tried desperately to give him an answer, but everything I
said sounded inadequate. Then I realised that scientists and
philosophers had been grappling with that question for centuries
without coming to any conclusion. 
DATA: Are you saying the question cannot be answered? 
CRUSHER: No, I think I'm saying that we struggle all our lives to
answer it, but it's the struggle that's important. That's what helps us
to define our place in the universe. 
DATA: I believe I understand, Doctor. 
CRUSHER: I don't think I've been very much help, Data. 
DATA: On the contrary, you have been a great deal of help. Thank you.

[Particle fountain laboratory]

LAFORGE: Murphy's team will cover gamma shift from
twenty three hundred to oh seven hundred hours. Okay, Doctor, I've
split the Engineering teams among all the shifts, and if nothing else
goes wrong, that should be enough to help you finish on time. 
FARALLON: With the help of the exocomps, I think we will. 
LAFORGE: Do you think they'll toe the line? 
FARALLON: Don't worry. They know who's in charge. 
(Data beams in) 
DATA: Doctor, I must ask you to stop using the exocomps. 
FARALLON: Why? Is there something wrong with them? 
DATA: No. It is not that. I have reason to believe the exocomps are
alive.

Captain's log, stardate 46316.6. I have summoned
the senior staff in order to discuss Commander Data's theory that the
exocomps are a life form. Doctor Farallon has attended only
reluctantly. 
[Observation lounge]

FARALLON: Captain, I object to being called here.
I'm wasting time that could be better spent elsewhere. 
PICARD: Doctor, I appreciate your time constraints, but recognising new
life, whatever its form, is the principal mission of this vessel.
Please. Now, Mister Data, will you tell us what makes you think that
the exocomps are alive? 
DATA: Sir, when the exocomp left the access tunnel prior to the
explosion, it may have been attempting to save itself from destruction.

FARALLON: Do you have any basis for that conclusion? 
DATA: Yes. When you attempted to override the exocomp and send it back
into the tunnel, it responded by deliberately burning out its control
interface. 
CRUSHER: Deliberately? 
DATA: The computer diagnostic showed that the exocomp disabled its own
interface. 
FARALLON: That could have been nothing more than a malfunction. 
DATA: However, two hours later, when it was aboard the Enterprise and
no longer in danger, it repaired itself. I believe the exocomp was
protecting itself. And if that is true, it has demonstrated an
awareness of its environment, and an ability to adapt to that
environment. 
FARALLON: You're anthropomorphising these units. Like any mechanical
devices, they occasionally malfunction. One time, I saw an exocomp
enter a reaction chamber for no apparent reason and vaporise itself. Is
that supposed to make me think it was depressed and suicidal? 
TROI: Doctor, why is it so difficult for you to accept the fact that
the exocomp could be alive? After all, you're talking to a living
machine right now. 
FARALLON: And I have nothing but the utmost respect and admiration for
Doctor Soong's accomplishment. But his intention was to create an
artificial life form. I created the exocomps to be tools. And there is
a big difference between Data and a tool. 
DATA: Doctor, there is a big difference between you and a virus, but
both are alive. 
PICARD: If the possibility exists, no matter how slight, that these
exocomps are lifeforms, then we must examine that possibility. 
DATA: Thank you, sir. And until we have a definitive answer, I believe
it would be inappropriate to exploit the exocomps as labourers. 
FARALLON: Captain, that's absurd. 
CRUSHER: If they are intelligent life forms, we have no right to force
them to work for us. 
FARALLON: That's like me telling you not to use your tricorder. 
CRUSHER: Tricorders aren't alive. 
FARALLON: Neither are exocomps. 
PICARD: Clearly these are difficult issues to resolve. We have to
proceed very carefully. So the first task is to test Mister Data's
hypothesis. 
LAFORGE: Data, you're claiming that this exocomp may be alive because
it demonstrated survival instincts, right? 
DATA: Yes. 
LAFORGE: Then why don't we just threaten its survival again and see
what happens? 
PICARD: Make it so. 
