FARALLON LAFORGE WORF COMPUTER CRUSHER DATA
attended built moment spent charge struggle summoned got staff

[Data's quarters]

DATA: Computer perform a level one diagnostic of
the exocomp's command module. 
COMPUTER: The command pathways are functioning normally. 
DATA: How can that be, if the interface circuitry is burned out? 
COMPUTER: The interface circuitry has been repaired. 
DATA: Curious. Computer, access the exocomp's sensor logs. Confirm that
there was a failure of the interface circuitry within the last twelve
hours. 
COMPUTER: Confirmed. Interface failure occurred at eleven hundred fifty
hours today, when the exocomp produced a power surge which burned out
the linkage. 
DATA: How and when was it repaired? 
COMPUTER: The exocomp activated a self-repair programme at thirteen
hundred forty hours. 
DATA: Why would the exocomp burn out its own interface circuitry and
repair it two hours later? 
COMPUTER: Unknown.

[Ten Forward]

LAFORGE: Here you are. I thought you'd be hard at
work by now. 
FARALLON: I wanted a quiet cup of tea before I went back. Gathering
strength, I guess. 
LAFORGE: I've come to tell you I've assigned two engineering teams to
work on the particle fountain. 
FARALLON: Thank you, Commander. I'm grateful. 
LAFORGE: You know, I really want you to know that I do admire the work
that you've done. And I'm sorry the exocomps aren't working out. 
FARALLON: You were right. I'm trying to move too fast. I guess I lack
that conservative streak most scientists have. I always seem to be out
there on the edge, taking chances. 
LAFORGE: You know, I'll bet you were the kind of little girl who was
always climbing one branch higher than the other kids. 
FARALLON: Anything to get to the top of the tree. 
LAFORGE: And I bet you never fell. 
FARALLON: Oh, no I fell all the time. Usually breaking a bone in the
process. I just never let it stop me. 
LAFORGE: Well, if it comes down to sheer determination, I know you'll
get this particle fountain built. 
FARALLON: You're right about that, Commander. I've spent the last six
years of my life on this project. It's the first thought I have when I
wake up, and the last before I go to bed. Whatever it takes to prove
this technology, I'll do it.

[Sickbay]

(Crusher is making repairs to her own right arm) 
WORF: Doctor, if you wish to master the bat'telh sword, you must learn
to strike and avoid in the same motion. 
CRUSHER: I almost got in under your guard, Worf. 
WORF: Almost. 
CRUSHER: Well, I'll keep that in mind next lesson. 
(Data enters) 
DATA: Doctor, are you injured? 
CRUSHER: Only my pride, Data. (to Worf) Thanks. 
(Worf leaves) 
DATA: Doctor, what is the definition of life? 
CRUSHER: (pause) That is a big question. Why do you ask? 
DATA: I am searching for a definition that will allow me to test an
hypothesis. 
[Crusher's office]

CRUSHER: Well, the broadest scientific definition
might be that life is what enables plants and animals to consume food,
derive energy from it, grow, adapt themselves to their surroundings and
reproduce. 
DATA: And you suggest that anything which exhibits these
characteristics is considered alive? 
CRUSHER: In general, yes. 
DATA: What about fire? 
CRUSHER: Fire? 
DATA: Yes. It consumes fuel to produce energy, it grows, it creates
offspring. By your definition, is it alive? 
CRUSHER: Fire is a chemical reaction. You could use the same argument
for growing crystals, but obviously we don't consider them alive. 
DATA: And what about me? I do not grow. I do not reproduce. I am
considered to be alive. 
CRUSHER: That's true, but you are unique. 
DATA: I wonder if that is so. 
CRUSHER: Data, if I may ask. Have a seat. What exactly are youe getting
at? 
DATA: I am curious as to what transpired between the moment when I was
nothing more than an assemblage of parts in Doctor Soong's laboratory,
and the next moment, when I became alive. What was it that endowed me
with life? 
CRUSHER: I remember Wesley asking me a similar question when he was
little, and I tried desperately to give him an answer, but everything I
said sounded inadequate. Then I realised that scientists and
philosophers had been grappling with that question for centuries
without coming to any conclusion. 
DATA: Are you saying the question cannot be answered? 
CRUSHER: No, I think I'm saying that we struggle all our lives to
answer it, but it's the struggle that's important. That's what helps us
to define our place in the universe. 
DATA: I believe I understand, Doctor. 
CRUSHER: I don't think I've been very much help, Data. 
DATA: On the contrary, you have been a great deal of help. Thank you.

[Particle fountain laboratory]

LAFORGE: Murphy's team will cover gamma shift from
twenty three hundred to oh seven hundred hours. Okay, Doctor, I've
split the Engineering teams among all the shifts, and if nothing else
goes wrong, that should be enough to help you finish on time. 
FARALLON: With the help of the exocomps, I think we will. 
LAFORGE: Do you think they'll toe the line? 
FARALLON: Don't worry. They know who's in charge. 
(Data beams in) 
DATA: Doctor, I must ask you to stop using the exocomps. 
FARALLON: Why? Is there something wrong with them? 
DATA: No. It is not that. I have reason to believe the exocomps are
alive.

Captain's log, stardate 46316.6. I have summoned
the senior staff in order to discuss Commander Data's theory that the
exocomps are a life form. Doctor Farallon has attended only
reluctantly. 
