TROI FARALLON LAFORGE WORF PICARD RIKER COMPUTER CRUSHER DATA

[Particle fountain laboratory]

LAFORGE: Murphy's team will cover gamma shift from
twenty three hundred to oh seven hundred hours. Okay, Doctor, I've
split the Engineering teams among all the shifts, and if nothing else
goes wrong, that should be enough to help you finish on time. 
FARALLON: With the help of the exocomps, I think we will. 
LAFORGE: Do you think they'll toe the line? 
FARALLON: Don't worry. They know who's in charge. 
(Data beams in) 
DATA: Doctor, I must ask you to stop using the exocomps. 
FARALLON: Why? Is there something wrong with them? 
DATA: No. It is not that. I have reason to believe the exocomps are
alive.

Captain's log, stardate 46316.6. I have summoned
the senior staff in order to discuss Commander Data's theory that the
exocomps are a life form. Doctor Farallon has attended only
reluctantly. 
[Observation lounge]

FARALLON: Captain, I object to being called here.
I'm wasting time that could be better spent elsewhere. 
PICARD: Doctor, I appreciate your time constraints, but recognising new
life, whatever its form, is the principal mission of this vessel.
Please. Now, Mister Data, will you tell us what makes you think that
the exocomps are alive? 
DATA: Sir, when the exocomp left the access tunnel prior to the
explosion, it may have been attempting to save itself from destruction.

FARALLON: Do you have any basis for that conclusion? 
DATA: Yes. When you attempted to override the exocomp and send it back
into the tunnel, it responded by deliberately burning out its control
interface. 
CRUSHER: Deliberately? 
DATA: The computer diagnostic showed that the exocomp disabled its own
interface. 
FARALLON: That could have been nothing more than a malfunction. 
DATA: However, two hours later, when it was aboard the Enterprise and
no longer in danger, it repaired itself. I believe the exocomp was
protecting itself. And if that is true, it has demonstrated an
awareness of its environment, and an ability to adapt to that
environment. 
FARALLON: You're anthropomorphising these units. Like any mechanical
devices, they occasionally malfunction. One time, I saw an exocomp
enter a reaction chamber for no apparent reason and vaporise itself. Is
that supposed to make me think it was depressed and suicidal? 
TROI: Doctor, why is it so difficult for you to accept the fact that
the exocomp could be alive? After all, you're talking to a living
machine right now. 
FARALLON: And I have nothing but the utmost respect and admiration for
Doctor Soong's accomplishment. But his intention was to create an
artificial life form. I created the exocomps to be tools. And there is
a big difference between Data and a tool. 
DATA: Doctor, there is a big difference between you and a virus, but
both are alive. 
PICARD: If the possibility exists, no matter how slight, that these
exocomps are lifeforms, then we must examine that possibility. 
DATA: Thank you, sir. And until we have a definitive answer, I believe
it would be inappropriate to exploit the exocomps as labourers. 
FARALLON: Captain, that's absurd. 
CRUSHER: If they are intelligent life forms, we have no right to force
them to work for us. 
FARALLON: That's like me telling you not to use your tricorder. 
CRUSHER: Tricorders aren't alive. 
FARALLON: Neither are exocomps. 
PICARD: Clearly these are difficult issues to resolve. We have to
proceed very carefully. So the first task is to test Mister Data's
hypothesis. 
LAFORGE: Data, you're claiming that this exocomp may be alive because
it demonstrated survival instincts, right? 
DATA: Yes. 
LAFORGE: Then why don't we just threaten its survival again and see
what happens? 
PICARD: Make it so. 
[Engineering]

(the exocomp is sitting just inside a Jefferies
tube) 
LAFORGE: Doctor, we're pretty much ready here. You can begin
programming it. What we've done, Captain, is to recreate a situation
similar to the one the exocomp encountered in the plasma conduit. 
DATA: We have created a small conduit breach in this tube. The exocomp
would normally require several minutes to complete a repair of this
type. Once it enters the tube, it will find that a plasma cascade
failure is in progress. 
PICARD: I assume this is a simulation. 
LAFORGE: Yes, sir. We're running a transient overload signal that will
simulate a failure in exactly one minute. 
FARALLON: If it does possess a survival instinct, as Mister Data
claims, it will exit the tube before the minute is up in order to save
itself. 
PICARD: Very well. Proceed. 
LAFORGE: Okay. Beginning test programme now. One minute. 
(the exocomp heads off) 
LAFORGE: Fifty seconds. (it gets to work) Thirty seconds. (it stops and
hesitates, then continues) Ten seconds. Five, four, three, two, one.
That's it. If this had been for real, that conduit would've exploded
with the exocomp inside. Go ahead, Doctor, bring it back in. 
FARALLON: Well, Captain, I think we've spent more than enough time
answering this question. I hope the outcome wasn't too much of a
disappointment for you, Mister Data. It certainly came as no surprise
to me. 
DATA: Thank you for your help, Doctor. 
FARALLON: You're welcome. 
PICARD: Well, I consider this time well spent. 
DATA: As do I, sir. Thank you. 
(later, Data is repeating the experiment) 
COMPUTER: Thirty seconds. Twenty seconds. 
CRUSHER: Commander Riker said you'd still be down here. He also said
the exocomp failed the test. 
DATA: That is true. 
COMPUTER: Time expired. Test complete. 
DATA: I have completed thirty four additional tests and the results
have been the same in each of them. Perhaps I was wrong in suspecting
the exocomp was alive. 
CRUSHER: This was really important to you, wasn't it? 
DATA: You said earlier that I am unique. If so, then I am alone in the
universe. When I began investigating the exocomps, I realised I might
be encountering a progenitor of myself. Suddenly the possibility exists
that I was no longer alone. For that reason, I. The exocomp has
returned. 
CRUSHER: Wasn't it's supposed to do that? 
DATA: In the previous thirty four trials, I brought it back once the
simulated failure occurred. This time we were talking, and I neglected
to do that. 
CRUSHER: I distracted you. I'm sorry. 
DATA: Do not apologise, Doctor. I believe we have discovered something
significant. 
CRUSHER: What? 
DATA: The exocomp has replicated a different tool. That is not the
molecular fuser it had when it entered the Jefferies tube. Doctor, the
exocomp not only completed the repairs, it also deactivated the
overload signal. 
CRUSHER: I thought this was just a simulation. 
DATA: It was, and the exocomp must have realised that. It saw that
there was no real danger and completed the repairs. 
CRUSHER: And then replicated the correct tool to eliminate the false
overload signal. 
DATA: I see no other possible explanation. 
CRUSHER: The exocomp didn't fail the test, it saw right through it.

Captain's log, stardate 46317.8. At Doctor
Farallon's request, I have agreed to tour the station and assess the
situation personally. I must decide soon whether it is in Starfleet's
best interest to recommend the particle fountain as a reliable
technology. 
[Particle fountain laboratory]

FARALLON: We're definitely making progress,
Captain. I'm not sure we'll be at full capacity within the forty eight
hour deadline, but we'll be close. 
LAFORGE: It looks like there's still some difficulty with the phase
selectors. 
FARALLON: That's true, but I'm sure it's the last real problem. 
PICARD: I hope for the sake of the project that I hope you're right,
Doctor. 
FARALLON: I understand, sir. We're going to do our best. 
(and the lights go out) 
FARALLON: This is strange. Primary power is still online. 
LAFORGE: Maybe it's another power grid malfunction? 
FARALLON: I don't think so. Something seems to be drawing power into
the main particle impeller. That's not a good sign. It could mean 
(the place rocks) 
FARALLON: We've lost internal confinement. The particle stream is
beginning to surge. 
LAFORGE: Captain, a radiation field is going to flood this chamber.
We've got to get everybody out of here immediately. 
PICARD: Understood. Doctor, the station must be evacuated. 
FARALLON: Captain, I might still 
PICARD: That is an order, Doctor. Now, assemble all personnel on the
transporter pad. Now! Picard to Enterprise. 
[Bridge]

PICARD [OC]: Do you read me? 
RIKER: Riker here, sir. 
WORF: Radiation field is increasing. We are losing communications. 
PICARD [OC]: Prepare for emergency transport. 
RIKER: Red alert. Riker to transporter room two. Prepare for emergency
transport.

