FARALLON LAFORGE WORF PIERSON COMPUTER CRUSHER DATA

[Engineering]

(they wire up the exocomp to a wall display) 
FARALLON: The exocomp came out of the plasma conduit. We tried to
override the commands and send it back in, but it just shut down. It's
been completely unresponsive ever since. 
LAFORGE: Well, let's see what our computer has to say. 
DATA: Geordi, the interface circuitry which links the exocomp to the
control pad is completely burned out. 
LAFORGE: That's strange. is there any evidence of secondary power
surges? 
DATA: No. 
LAFORGE: But what's going on there? Data, increase the magnification of
section gamma four. 
DATA: Interesting. The number of new circuit pathways has increased by
six hundred thirty two percent. 
FARALLON: Oh, no. 
LAFORGE: What is it? 
FARALLON: Sometimes an exocomp starts forming large numbers of new
pathways totally at random. Eventually, it reaches a point where it
shuts down. Just like this one. 
DATA: Doctor, the new pathways do not appear to be interfering with the
original circuitry. 
FARALLON: Once the exocomp is this badly corrupted, it's useless. You
have to erase the unit and start all over again, and there's no time
for that now. 
LAFORGE: That leaves you with only two. It's going to slow you down. 
FARALLON: Yes, Commander. You have the right to point out that you told
me so. 
LAFORGE: I only wanted to say that we'd be happy to add on an extra
shift to pick up the slack. 
FARALLON: I'm sorry. I guess I'm touchy these days. 
LAFORGE: It's okay. You've got a lot on your shoulders. 
FARALLON: Well, I'd better get back to it. Thanks, Commander. 
(Farallon leaves) 
LAFORGE: I feel sorry for her. This project has had nothing but
problems. Why did that plasma conduit explode? 
DATA: Apparently there was a micro-fracture in the conduit wall. The
fault did not register on our instruments. 
LAFORGE: I guess it's a good thing the exocomp malfunctioned. Almost
seems like it knew just when to leave. 
DATA: Geordi, are you implying the exocomp exhibited some form of
self-preservation? 
LAFORGE: Of course not. 
PIERSON [OC]: Lieutenant Pierson to Commander La Forge. Sir, could you
join us in the systems monitor room? 
LAFORGE: On my way.

[Data's quarters]

DATA: Computer perform a level one diagnostic of
the exocomp's command module. 
COMPUTER: The command pathways are functioning normally. 
DATA: How can that be, if the interface circuitry is burned out? 
COMPUTER: The interface circuitry has been repaired. 
DATA: Curious. Computer, access the exocomp's sensor logs. Confirm that
there was a failure of the interface circuitry within the last twelve
hours. 
COMPUTER: Confirmed. Interface failure occurred at eleven hundred fifty
hours today, when the exocomp produced a power surge which burned out
the linkage. 
DATA: How and when was it repaired? 
COMPUTER: The exocomp activated a self-repair programme at thirteen
hundred forty hours. 
DATA: Why would the exocomp burn out its own interface circuitry and
repair it two hours later? 
COMPUTER: Unknown.

[Ten Forward]

LAFORGE: Here you are. I thought you'd be hard at
work by now. 
FARALLON: I wanted a quiet cup of tea before I went back. Gathering
strength, I guess. 
LAFORGE: I've come to tell you I've assigned two engineering teams to
work on the particle fountain. 
FARALLON: Thank you, Commander. I'm grateful. 
LAFORGE: You know, I really want you to know that I do admire the work
that you've done. And I'm sorry the exocomps aren't working out. 
FARALLON: You were right. I'm trying to move too fast. I guess I lack
that conservative streak most scientists have. I always seem to be out
there on the edge, taking chances. 
LAFORGE: You know, I'll bet you were the kind of little girl who was
always climbing one branch higher than the other kids. 
FARALLON: Anything to get to the top of the tree. 
LAFORGE: And I bet you never fell. 
FARALLON: Oh, no I fell all the time. Usually breaking a bone in the
process. I just never let it stop me. 
LAFORGE: Well, if it comes down to sheer determination, I know you'll
get this particle fountain built. 
FARALLON: You're right about that, Commander. I've spent the last six
years of my life on this project. It's the first thought I have when I
wake up, and the last before I go to bed. Whatever it takes to prove
this technology, I'll do it.

[Sickbay]

(Crusher is making repairs to her own right arm) 
WORF: Doctor, if you wish to master the bat'telh sword, you must learn
to strike and avoid in the same motion. 
CRUSHER: I almost got in under your guard, Worf. 
WORF: Almost. 
CRUSHER: Well, I'll keep that in mind next lesson. 
(Data enters) 
DATA: Doctor, are you injured? 
CRUSHER: Only my pride, Data. (to Worf) Thanks. 
(Worf leaves) 
DATA: Doctor, what is the definition of life? 
CRUSHER: (pause) That is a big question. Why do you ask? 
DATA: I am searching for a definition that will allow me to test an
hypothesis. 
[Crusher's office]

CRUSHER: Well, the broadest scientific definition
might be that life is what enables plants and animals to consume food,
derive energy from it, grow, adapt themselves to their surroundings and
reproduce. 
DATA: And you suggest that anything which exhibits these
characteristics is considered alive? 
CRUSHER: In general, yes. 
DATA: What about fire? 
CRUSHER: Fire? 
DATA: Yes. It consumes fuel to produce energy, it grows, it creates
offspring. By your definition, is it alive? 
CRUSHER: Fire is a chemical reaction. You could use the same argument
for growing crystals, but obviously we don't consider them alive. 
DATA: And what about me? I do not grow. I do not reproduce. I am
considered to be alive. 
CRUSHER: That's true, but you are unique. 
DATA: I wonder if that is so. 
CRUSHER: Data, if I may ask. Have a seat. What exactly are youe getting
at? 
DATA: I am curious as to what transpired between the moment when I was
nothing more than an assemblage of parts in Doctor Soong's laboratory,
and the next moment, when I became alive. What was it that endowed me
with life? 
CRUSHER: I remember Wesley asking me a similar question when he was
little, and I tried desperately to give him an answer, but everything I
said sounded inadequate. Then I realised that scientists and
philosophers had been grappling with that question for centuries
without coming to any conclusion. 
DATA: Are you saying the question cannot be answered? 
CRUSHER: No, I think I'm saying that we struggle all our lives to
answer it, but it's the struggle that's important. That's what helps us
to define our place in the universe. 
DATA: I believe I understand, Doctor. 
CRUSHER: I don't think I've been very much help, Data. 
DATA: On the contrary, you have been a great deal of help. Thank you.

