FARALLON LAFORGE PICARD COMPUTER PIERSON DATA

[Ready room]

FARALLON: Captain, I know you're supposed to give
your evaluation to Starfleet today. I'd like you to postpone that
report another forty eight hours. 
PICARD: The Enterprise is scheduled to leave the Tyran system tomorrow.
If I'm to change that plan, I'll need a very good reason. 
FARALLON: I realise that, sir. If you're going to make a recommendation
to Starfleet about using the particle fountain on Carema, it seems only
fair that you should see it operating at full strength. 
PICARD: Agreed. 
FARALLON: I think I can complete the project and boost the efficiency
of the particle stream if I use exocomps, the new devices I've
constructed. 
PICARD: I understand one of these devices successfully repaired a
faulty power grid. 
FARALLON: Yes, sir. I've been testing them on a limited basis, but I
think they're ready to be used on a larger scale. 
PICARD: Mister La Forge, what are your thoughts? 
LAFORGE: Well, I guess the only risk is in falling even further behind.

FARALLON: I'm willing to take that risk. 
PICARD: Mister Data? 
DATA: Exocomps are highly sophisticated devices, sir. If they perform
up to expectation, their potential to advance this project is
considerable. 
PICARD: I'm inclined to agree. I don't think that forty eight hours is
too much time to risk particularly when the gains areso substantial.
You may proceed, Doctor. 
FARALLON: Thank you, sir. If possible, I'd like Commander Data to work
with me. 
DATA: Thank you, Doctor. I welcome the opportunity.

[Particle fountain laboratory]

(the exocomp finishes work on a circuit board) 
FARALLON: Commander, there's a plasma conduit in one of the access
tunnels that's ready to be sealed. It's the perfect job for an exocomp.

DATA: I agree, Doctor. 
FARALLON: Well, Mister Data, what is your analysis so far? 
DATA: I have successfully completed fourteen separate tasks with this
exocomp in the past hour. I estimate it would take two people nine
hours to complete the same tasks. I would characterise the unit's
performance as excellent. 
FARALLON: I hope Commander La Forge and Captain Picard agree with you. 
DATA: I am confident they will. Commander La Forge is especially 
(the exocomp comes back out of the access tube) 
FARALLON: It didn't finish sealing the plasma conduit. Let me end it
back in. 
DATA: It is not accepting your commands. 
FARALLON: Maybe there's a malfunction in the control processor. Let me
see if I can override it. 
(she drops the control pad) 
DATA: Doctor. 
FARALLON: I'm all right. The control pad just overloaded. What's the
matter with this thing? 
(then an explosion comes out of the access tube)

Second officer's log, stardate 46315.5. The
unexplained behaviour of the exocomp has greatly puzzled both Doctor
Farallon and myself. We have brought the defective unit to the
Enterprise for investigation.

[Engineering]

(they wire up the exocomp to a wall display) 
FARALLON: The exocomp came out of the plasma conduit. We tried to
override the commands and send it back in, but it just shut down. It's
been completely unresponsive ever since. 
LAFORGE: Well, let's see what our computer has to say. 
DATA: Geordi, the interface circuitry which links the exocomp to the
control pad is completely burned out. 
LAFORGE: That's strange. is there any evidence of secondary power
surges? 
DATA: No. 
LAFORGE: But what's going on there? Data, increase the magnification of
section gamma four. 
DATA: Interesting. The number of new circuit pathways has increased by
six hundred thirty two percent. 
FARALLON: Oh, no. 
LAFORGE: What is it? 
FARALLON: Sometimes an exocomp starts forming large numbers of new
pathways totally at random. Eventually, it reaches a point where it
shuts down. Just like this one. 
DATA: Doctor, the new pathways do not appear to be interfering with the
original circuitry. 
FARALLON: Once the exocomp is this badly corrupted, it's useless. You
have to erase the unit and start all over again, and there's no time
for that now. 
LAFORGE: That leaves you with only two. It's going to slow you down. 
FARALLON: Yes, Commander. You have the right to point out that you told
me so. 
LAFORGE: I only wanted to say that we'd be happy to add on an extra
shift to pick up the slack. 
FARALLON: I'm sorry. I guess I'm touchy these days. 
LAFORGE: It's okay. You've got a lot on your shoulders. 
FARALLON: Well, I'd better get back to it. Thanks, Commander. 
(Farallon leaves) 
LAFORGE: I feel sorry for her. This project has had nothing but
problems. Why did that plasma conduit explode? 
DATA: Apparently there was a micro-fracture in the conduit wall. The
fault did not register on our instruments. 
LAFORGE: I guess it's a good thing the exocomp malfunctioned. Almost
seems like it knew just when to leave. 
DATA: Geordi, are you implying the exocomp exhibited some form of
self-preservation? 
LAFORGE: Of course not. 
PIERSON [OC]: Lieutenant Pierson to Commander La Forge. Sir, could you
join us in the systems monitor room? 
LAFORGE: On my way.

[Data's quarters]

DATA: Computer perform a level one diagnostic of
the exocomp's command module. 
COMPUTER: The command pathways are functioning normally. 
DATA: How can that be, if the interface circuitry is burned out? 
COMPUTER: The interface circuitry has been repaired. 
DATA: Curious. Computer, access the exocomp's sensor logs. Confirm that
there was a failure of the interface circuitry within the last twelve
hours. 
COMPUTER: Confirmed. Interface failure occurred at eleven hundred fifty
hours today, when the exocomp produced a power surge which burned out
the linkage. 
DATA: How and when was it repaired? 
COMPUTER: The exocomp activated a self-repair programme at thirteen
hundred forty hours. 
DATA: Why would the exocomp burn out its own interface circuitry and
repair it two hours later? 
COMPUTER: Unknown.

[Ten Forward]

LAFORGE: Here you are. I thought you'd be hard at
work by now. 
FARALLON: I wanted a quiet cup of tea before I went back. Gathering
strength, I guess. 
LAFORGE: I've come to tell you I've assigned two engineering teams to
work on the particle fountain. 
FARALLON: Thank you, Commander. I'm grateful. 
LAFORGE: You know, I really want you to know that I do admire the work
that you've done. And I'm sorry the exocomps aren't working out. 
FARALLON: You were right. I'm trying to move too fast. I guess I lack
that conservative streak most scientists have. I always seem to be out
there on the edge, taking chances. 
LAFORGE: You know, I'll bet you were the kind of little girl who was
always climbing one branch higher than the other kids. 
FARALLON: Anything to get to the top of the tree. 
LAFORGE: And I bet you never fell. 
FARALLON: Oh, no I fell all the time. Usually breaking a bone in the
process. I just never let it stop me. 
LAFORGE: Well, if it comes down to sheer determination, I know you'll
get this particle fountain built. 
FARALLON: You're right about that, Commander. I've spent the last six
years of my life on this project. It's the first thought I have when I
wake up, and the last before I go to bed. Whatever it takes to prove
this technology, I'll do it.

