PICARD [OC] RIKER FARALLON LAFORGE WORF PICARD COMPUTER KELSO RIKER [OC] CRUSHER DATA
molecular heads exists believe possible stardate simulate unique explanation

[Engineering]

(the exocomp is sitting just inside a Jefferies
tube) 
LAFORGE: Doctor, we're pretty much ready here. You can begin
programming it. What we've done, Captain, is to recreate a situation
similar to the one the exocomp encountered in the plasma conduit. 
DATA: We have created a small conduit breach in this tube. The exocomp
would normally require several minutes to complete a repair of this
type. Once it enters the tube, it will find that a plasma cascade
failure is in progress. 
PICARD: I assume this is a simulation. 
LAFORGE: Yes, sir. We're running a transient overload signal that will
simulate a failure in exactly one minute. 
FARALLON: If it does possess a survival instinct, as Mister Data
claims, it will exit the tube before the minute is up in order to save
itself. 
PICARD: Very well. Proceed. 
LAFORGE: Okay. Beginning test programme now. One minute. 
(the exocomp heads off) 
LAFORGE: Fifty seconds. (it gets to work) Thirty seconds. (it stops and
hesitates, then continues) Ten seconds. Five, four, three, two, one.
That's it. If this had been for real, that conduit would've exploded
with the exocomp inside. Go ahead, Doctor, bring it back in. 
FARALLON: Well, Captain, I think we've spent more than enough time
answering this question. I hope the outcome wasn't too much of a
disappointment for you, Mister Data. It certainly came as no surprise
to me. 
DATA: Thank you for your help, Doctor. 
FARALLON: You're welcome. 
PICARD: Well, I consider this time well spent. 
DATA: As do I, sir. Thank you. 
(later, Data is repeating the experiment) 
COMPUTER: Thirty seconds. Twenty seconds. 
CRUSHER: Commander Riker said you'd still be down here. He also said
the exocomp failed the test. 
DATA: That is true. 
COMPUTER: Time expired. Test complete. 
DATA: I have completed thirty four additional tests and the results
have been the same in each of them. Perhaps I was wrong in suspecting
the exocomp was alive. 
CRUSHER: This was really important to you, wasn't it? 
DATA: You said earlier that I am unique. If so, then I am alone in the
universe. When I began investigating the exocomps, I realised I might
be encountering a progenitor of myself. Suddenly the possibility exists
that I was no longer alone. For that reason, I. The exocomp has
returned. 
CRUSHER: Wasn't it's supposed to do that? 
DATA: In the previous thirty four trials, I brought it back once the
simulated failure occurred. This time we were talking, and I neglected
to do that. 
CRUSHER: I distracted you. I'm sorry. 
DATA: Do not apologise, Doctor. I believe we have discovered something
significant. 
CRUSHER: What? 
DATA: The exocomp has replicated a different tool. That is not the
molecular fuser it had when it entered the Jefferies tube. Doctor, the
exocomp not only completed the repairs, it also deactivated the
overload signal. 
CRUSHER: I thought this was just a simulation. 
DATA: It was, and the exocomp must have realised that. It saw that
there was no real danger and completed the repairs. 
CRUSHER: And then replicated the correct tool to eliminate the false
overload signal. 
DATA: I see no other possible explanation. 
CRUSHER: The exocomp didn't fail the test, it saw right through it.

Captain's log, stardate 46317.8. At Doctor
Farallon's request, I have agreed to tour the station and assess the
situation personally. I must decide soon whether it is in Starfleet's
best interest to recommend the particle fountain as a reliable
technology. 
[Particle fountain laboratory]

FARALLON: We're definitely making progress,
Captain. I'm not sure we'll be at full capacity within the forty eight
hour deadline, but we'll be close. 
LAFORGE: It looks like there's still some difficulty with the phase
selectors. 
FARALLON: That's true, but I'm sure it's the last real problem. 
PICARD: I hope for the sake of the project that I hope you're right,
Doctor. 
FARALLON: I understand, sir. We're going to do our best. 
(and the lights go out) 
FARALLON: This is strange. Primary power is still online. 
LAFORGE: Maybe it's another power grid malfunction? 
FARALLON: I don't think so. Something seems to be drawing power into
the main particle impeller. That's not a good sign. It could mean 
(the place rocks) 
FARALLON: We've lost internal confinement. The particle stream is
beginning to surge. 
LAFORGE: Captain, a radiation field is going to flood this chamber.
We've got to get everybody out of here immediately. 
PICARD: Understood. Doctor, the station must be evacuated. 
FARALLON: Captain, I might still 
PICARD: That is an order, Doctor. Now, assemble all personnel on the
transporter pad. Now! Picard to Enterprise. 
[Bridge]

PICARD [OC]: Do you read me? 
RIKER: Riker here, sir. 
WORF: Radiation field is increasing. We are losing communications. 
PICARD [OC]: Prepare for emergency transport. 
RIKER: Red alert. Riker to transporter room two. Prepare for emergency
transport.

[Particle fountain laboratory]

LAFORGE: The radiation is setting up a field
ionisation effect, Captain. We've got less than a minute to beam out of
here. 
PICARD: Is that everybody? 
FARALLON: Where's Takenta? He was over there, near the impeller
control. 
LAFORGE: I'll get him. Takenta! 
(Geordi disappears from view then there's a big flash) 
PICARD: Mister La Forge! Stand by to transport. 
FARALLON: Captain, you'll be trapped here. 
(Picard beams them away) 
PICARD: Mister La Forge! Mister La Forge, are you all right? 
LAFORGE: Yeah, I'm fine, Captain. I only caught the edge of it. He's
dead.

[Transporter room]

RIKER [OC]: Chief, do you have them? 
KELSO: They're here, sir. 
RIKER [OC]: Is everyone all right? 
FARALLON: We're fine, sir. But Captain Picard, Commander La Forge and
one of my men

