FARALLON KELSO DATA LAFORGE
repairs welcome actually lieutenant compensates separation energise operation restored

[Bridge]

DATA: Commander La Forge, please report. 
[Particle fountain laboratory]

LAFORGE: We're fine, Data. The power grid is fully
restored. 
(the exocomp returns) 
LAFORGE: The malfunction seems to have been repaired and operations
over here at the station are all back to normal. 
[Bridge]

DATA: How were you able to accomplish the repair so
quickly?

[Particle fountain laboratory]

LAFORGE: You know, I'm not exactly sure.

Captain's log, stardate 46315.2. Repairs to the
particle fountain seem to have succeeded and it is now functioning
smoothly. Doctor Farallon is coming aboard to demonstrate the device
that carried out the repairs. 
[Transporter room]

DATA: Energise. 
KELSO: Aye, sir. 
(La Forge, Farallon and an exocomp are beamed aboard) 
DATA: Welcome to the Enterprise, Doctor. I am Lieutenant Commander
Data. 
FARALLON: Mister Data, I was hoping I'd have a chance to meet you. I've
done extensive studies of your positronic network. 
DATA: And I have studied your design for the particle fountain. I find
the concept to be highly innovative. 
FARALLON: Thank you. 
DATA: I am curious how you were able to repair the power grid so
quickly. 
FARALLON: This should make it clear, Commander. 
LAFORGE: Why don't we set up in Engineering. 
FARALLON: Is it true that your computational speed is limited only by
the physical separation of your positronic links? 
DATA: Actually, that is no longer the case. I have recently converted
my interlink sequencer to asynchronous operation, which removed the
performance constraint. 
LAFORGE: Doctor, this way please. 
FARALLON: I see. But how did you resolve the signal fragmentation? 
(as they head out into the corridor) 
DATA: The interlink sequencer is now bi-directional. It compensates for
the asynchronous mode distortion arising from the resonant field. 
FARALLON: Yes. That's fascinating. Does the sequencer require any
buffering system to eliminate interference?

