JELLICO RIKER DATA LAFORGE
arrive complete separate interested astrophysics array main mister climb

[Bridge]

JELLICO: I want you to install a bypass between the
main phaser array and the secondary generators. I also want to run the
main deflector pathway through the warp power grid and the auxiliary
conduits through the lateral relays. You may have to reconfigure the
transfer interface. 
DATA: Sir, the transfer interface was not designed for that
configuration. It will take seven hours to make those changes. 
RIKER: Sir, you may not be aware that our normal interface already
routes auxiliary power through three separate relays. 
JELLICO: I'm aware of your current design system. It's not good enough.
If these negotiations fail, we could find ourselves in a war zone and
if that happens I want to be loaded for bear. 
RIKER: I'll get right on it. 
JELLICO: Good. Now these stations should be devoted to damage control
and weapons status from now on. See that they're manned at all times. 
RIKER: Aye, sir. 
JELLICO: Mister Data, how long before we reach the rendezvous point? 
DATA: We will arrive in fifty one hours, thirty two minutes, sir. 
JELLICO: Schedule four battle drills, one for each shift. Run a series
of simulated attacks from a Cardassian squadron. I want you to conduct
the exercises personally, Will. Get it done. Oh, and get that fish out
of the ready room. Data, you're with me.

[Engineering]

(Jellico and La Forge climb out of a Jefferies
tube) 
JELLICO: Power transfer levels need to be upgraded by twenty percent.
The efficiency of your warp coils is also unsatisfactory. 
LAFORGE: Coil efficiency is well within specifications, Captain. 
JELLICO: I'm not interested in the specs, Geordi. The efficiency needs
to be raised by at least fifteen percent. 
LAFORGE: Fifteen percent. 
DATA: That is an attainable goal, but it will require realigning the
warp coil and taking the secondary distribution grid offline. 
JELLICO: Very good, Data. That's exactly what I want you to do. 
LAFORGE: If we take this grid offline, we're going to have to shut down
exobiology, the astrophysics lab and geological research. 
JELLICO: We're not on a research mission. Get it done in two days. 
DATA: I believe that is also an attainable goal. If we utilise the
entire Engineering department, there should be sufficient manpower
available to complete the task. 
LAFORGE: Sure, if everybody works around the clock for the next two
days. 
JELLICO: Then you'd better get to it, Geordi. It looks like you have
some work to do. Data.

