SOLOK CRUSHER WORF PICARD

[Torman bar]

(Picard is directed to the person he is looking
for.) 
SOLOK: If he doesn't pay up, I know three large Ferengi who will not be
so forgiving. 
(As our trio stand around, the person the little Ferengi was talking to
leaves in a hurry) 
SOLOK: I didn't do it. 
PICARD: I'm not accusing you of anything. 
SOLOK: What do you want then? 
PICARD: We're looking for DaiMon Solok. 
SOLOK: Why? 
PICARD: I have a business proposition to discuss. 
SOLOK: Solok is a very busy, very important man. He isn't here. (Worf
sits him down again) But I could relay a message. 
PICARD: Good. Please, will you tell DaiMon Solok that we're interested
in transportation to Celtris Three. 
SOLOK: That's a Cardassian planet. 
PICARD: Now, we understand that DaiMon Solok runs cargo there from time
to time. 
SOLOK: Solok is no smuggler. 
PICARD: Yes, but if Solok were to go to Celtris Three for legitimate
reasons, we would be interested in quietly booking passage for the
journey. 
SOLOK: I don't think he would be interested in dealing with Federation
spies. 
CRUSHER: You know, I heard that Solok was quite a man. 
SOLOK: Why, yes, he is an extraordinary man. 
CRUSHER: That's why we came here, because only Solok could help us. I
guess there's some things even Solok can't do. It's too bad. (stroking
Solok's lob) Because if he could, I would be very, very 
SOLOK: Yes? 
CRUSHER: Grateful. 
SOLOK: (quivering with excitement) When do you want to leave?

[Caverns]

PICARD: Beverly, make sure that your tricorder is
keeping a precise map of the route. We could very easily get lost in
here. 
CRUSHER: Right. I'm picking up some subspace signals, but I can't seem
to get a lock on them. 
PICARD: That's typical of theta-band emissions. You have to compress
the detection band width in order to determine the fix. The source
emission is five hundred metres east of here. And seven hundred metres
below. 
(something flies overhead) 
PICARD: It's all right. They're called lynars, a kind of Celtrine bat.
They're harmless. 
WORF: Bats? 
CRUSHER: You're not afraid of bats, are you, Worf? 
WORF: Of course not.

First Officer's log, supplemental. We have
rendezvoused with the Cardassian ship Reklar to begin diplomatic talks
designed to ease tensions along the border.

