SOLOK RIKER CRUSHER WORF PICARD

[Shuttlecraft]

WORF: Shuttlecraft Feynman to Enterprise. We have
cleared the shuttlebay. 
RIKER [OC]: Acknowledged, Feynman. Good luck. 
PICARD: Thank you, Enterprise. Well, now that we're under way, I can
tell you about our mission. Starfleet Intelligence believes the
Cardassians are developing a metagenic weapon. 
CRUSHER: Oh my God. 
WORF: I am not familiar with metagenics. 
CRUSHER: They're genetically engineered viruses that are designed to
destroy entire ecosystems. When metagenic toxins are released into a
planet's atmosphere, they immediately begin to mutate. They seek out
and destroy all forms of DNA they encounter. In a few days, everything
is dead. 
PICARD: In a month, the metagenic agent itself breaks down and
dissipates completely, leaving every city, every road, every piece of
equipment perfectly intact. 
WORF: Leaving the planet safe to be conquered. Wouldn't using such a
weapon pose as great a risk to the attacker as to the target? 
CRUSHER: That's why metagenics and other biological weapons were
outlawed years ago. Even the Romulans have abided with those
agreements. 
PICARD: Starfleet Intelligence believes that the Cardassians are
developing a new delivery system, one that would protect them from
accidental exposure to the toxin. They believe that the Cardassians are
testing a way of launching dormant metagenic material on a subspace
carrier wave. 
CRUSHER: So they could activate the toxins after the launch, thereby
preventing any accidental exposure. 
PICARD: And because the subspace wave would appear simply as background
radiation, no one would realise what was happening until it was too
late. Now, for the past few weeks, theta-band subspace emissions have
been detected coming from Celtris Three. Those emissions may indicate
that a metagenic delivery system in operation. 
WORF: What do we know about Celtris Three? 
PICARD: Very little. It was thought to be uninhabited until these
emissions were detected. Starfleet believes that the Cardassians may
have a secret research lab located somewhere below the planet surface.
Our orders are to penetrate this Celtris Three installation and
determine if the Cardassians are actually building a metagenic weapon. 
CRUSHER: And if they are? 
PICARD: Destroy it. At any cost. When I was on the Stargazer, we
conducted extensive tests using theta band carrier waves. One of the
reasons I was selected for this mission is my familiarity with the
methods used for generating them. Mister Worf, your presence here is
obvious. Doctor, your job will be to locate and destroy any biotoxins
we may find. 
WORF: Celtris Three is in Cardassian space. How will we get there
undetected? 
PICARD: I know a way of acquiring some discreet transport. Mister Worf,
set a course for Torman Five.

[Torman bar]

(Picard is directed to the person he is looking
for.) 
SOLOK: If he doesn't pay up, I know three large Ferengi who will not be
so forgiving. 
(As our trio stand around, the person the little Ferengi was talking to
leaves in a hurry) 
SOLOK: I didn't do it. 
PICARD: I'm not accusing you of anything. 
SOLOK: What do you want then? 
PICARD: We're looking for DaiMon Solok. 
SOLOK: Why? 
PICARD: I have a business proposition to discuss. 
SOLOK: Solok is a very busy, very important man. He isn't here. (Worf
sits him down again) But I could relay a message. 
PICARD: Good. Please, will you tell DaiMon Solok that we're interested
in transportation to Celtris Three. 
SOLOK: That's a Cardassian planet. 
PICARD: Now, we understand that DaiMon Solok runs cargo there from time
to time. 
SOLOK: Solok is no smuggler. 
PICARD: Yes, but if Solok were to go to Celtris Three for legitimate
reasons, we would be interested in quietly booking passage for the
journey. 
SOLOK: I don't think he would be interested in dealing with Federation
spies. 
CRUSHER: You know, I heard that Solok was quite a man. 
SOLOK: Why, yes, he is an extraordinary man. 
CRUSHER: That's why we came here, because only Solok could help us. I
guess there's some things even Solok can't do. It's too bad. (stroking
Solok's lob) Because if he could, I would be very, very 
SOLOK: Yes? 
CRUSHER: Grateful. 
SOLOK: (quivering with excitement) When do you want to leave?

