TROI LAFORGE JELLICO RIKER COMPUTER PICARD CRUSHER DATA

[Ten Forward]

(the two Captains are in dress uniform) 
JELLICO: Yeah, I know. Wearing these uniforms reminds me of my first
days at the Academy.
RIKER: Attention to orders. 
PICARD: (reading) To Captain Jean-Luc Picard, Commanding Officer USS
Enterprise, stardate 46358.1. You are hereby requested and required to
relinquish command of your vessel to Captain Edward Jellico, Commanding
Officer USS Cairo as of this date. Signed, Vice-Admiral Alynna
Nechayev, Starfleet Command. Computer, transfer all command codes to
Captain Edward Jellico. Voice authorisation, Picard delta five. 
COMPUTER: Transfer complete. USS Enterprise now under command of
Captain Edward Jellico. 
JELLICO: I relieve you, sir. 
PICARD: I stand relieved. 
JELLICO: Dismissed. 
LAFORGE: I wonder how permanent this is going to be. 
RIKER: I don't know. They don't usually go through the ceremony if it's
just a temporary assignment. 
TROI: Sore? 
CRUSHER: Sore doesn't begin to describe it. I know. I wish I could talk
about it. 
PICARD: Most of the secondary systems were changed at the last
overhaul. I don't think they'll give you any problems, but you might
want to check out the port lateral 
JELLICO: I'll take care of the Enterprise, Jean-Luc. You don't have to
mother me. How's your team shaping up? 
PICARD: Very well. But I would prefer more recent intelligence on the
exact layout of the installation. The most current information we have
is two years old. 
JELLICO: Two years? I don't know how Nechayev ever talked you into
this. 
PICARD: She gave me no choice. 
JELLICO: Well, maybe there's something we can do to help. We'll launch
a class five probe just before we reach the border. You could pick up
the telemetry aboard the shuttle. 
PICARD: Now that would be extremely helpful. 
JELLICO: Will. 
RIKER: Captain. Captain. 
JELLICO: I believe we're scheduled to arrive at the Cardassian border
during delta shift. Please inform the delta tactical officer that I
want to launch a class five probe just before we drop out of warp. 
RIKER: I was actually going to talk to you about delta shift a little
later, sir. Right now, gamma shift will be on duty when we arrive and I
will tell Lieutenant McDowell about the probe. 
JELLICO: Is there a problem with delta shift, Will? 
RIKER: There is no delta shift yet, sir. I have spoken to the
department heads about changing from three shifts to four, and they
assure me it's going to cause us significant personnel problems. 
JELLICO: So you have not changed the watch rotation. 
RIKER: I was going to explain this to you after the ceremony, sir. 
JELLICO: You will tell the department heads that as of now the
Enterprise is on a four shift rotation. I don't want to talk about it.
Get it done. Now that means delta shift will be due to come on duty in
two hours. I expect you to have it fully manned and ready when it does.
Is that clear? 
RIKER: Yes, sir. If you'll excuse me, sir. Captain. 
JELLICO: He was your first officer for five years. 
PICARD: One of the finest officers that I have ever served with. 
JELLICO: Of course he is, Jean-Luc. I'm sure it'll all work out.

Captain's log, stardate 46358.2. The Enterprise is
on course for a rendezvous with the Cardassian ship Reklar.
Fortunately, I still have time to prepare the ship and crew for the
task ahead.

[Bridge]

JELLICO: I want you to install a bypass between the
main phaser array and the secondary generators. I also want to run the
main deflector pathway through the warp power grid and the auxiliary
conduits through the lateral relays. You may have to reconfigure the
transfer interface. 
DATA: Sir, the transfer interface was not designed for that
configuration. It will take seven hours to make those changes. 
RIKER: Sir, you may not be aware that our normal interface already
routes auxiliary power through three separate relays. 
JELLICO: I'm aware of your current design system. It's not good enough.
If these negotiations fail, we could find ourselves in a war zone and
if that happens I want to be loaded for bear. 
RIKER: I'll get right on it. 
JELLICO: Good. Now these stations should be devoted to damage control
and weapons status from now on. See that they're manned at all times. 
RIKER: Aye, sir. 
JELLICO: Mister Data, how long before we reach the rendezvous point? 
DATA: We will arrive in fifty one hours, thirty two minutes, sir. 
JELLICO: Schedule four battle drills, one for each shift. Run a series
of simulated attacks from a Cardassian squadron. I want you to conduct
the exercises personally, Will. Get it done. Oh, and get that fish out
of the ready room. Data, you're with me.

