PICARD RIKER CRUSHER WORF JELLICO

[Ready room]

PICARD: My orders are to maintain radio silence
until we've completed the mission. 
JELLICO: Well the Enterprise will be monitoring your channel just in
case you do need to transmit a signal. 
RIKER [OC]: Bridge to Captain Jellico. We've arrived at the shuttle
departure coordinates. 
JELLICO: Did you launch the probe I requested? 
RIKER [OC]: Yes, sir. I wasn't aware you wanted to be informed. 
JELLICO: Thank you. Jellico out. I can see why he's still only a first
officer. 
PICARD: Captain, I would just like you to know that Commander Riker is 
JELLICO: I've read your reports, Jean-Luc. I know you think highly of
him. 
PICARD: It's not just my opinion. He's been decorated by Starfleet
Command five times. He's been offered his own ship more than once. I
think if you just gave him a chance, you'd find him an outstanding
officer. 
JELLICO: Jean-Luc, let's be candid for a moment. The Cardassians aren't
going to listen to reason, and the Federation isn't going to give in to
their demands. And the chances are you won't be coming back from this
mission of yours. I want this ship ready for action and I don't have
time to give Will Riker or anyone else a chance. And forgive me for
being blunt, but the Enterprise is mine now. Well, here's hoping you
beat the odds. Good hunting. 
PICARD: Thank you. 
JELLICO: Jean-Luc. I believe this is yours. 
(and Shakespeare leaves the room)

[Shuttlecraft]

WORF: Shuttlecraft Feynman to Enterprise. We have
cleared the shuttlebay. 
RIKER [OC]: Acknowledged, Feynman. Good luck. 
PICARD: Thank you, Enterprise. Well, now that we're under way, I can
tell you about our mission. Starfleet Intelligence believes the
Cardassians are developing a metagenic weapon. 
CRUSHER: Oh my God. 
WORF: I am not familiar with metagenics. 
CRUSHER: They're genetically engineered viruses that are designed to
destroy entire ecosystems. When metagenic toxins are released into a
planet's atmosphere, they immediately begin to mutate. They seek out
and destroy all forms of DNA they encounter. In a few days, everything
is dead. 
PICARD: In a month, the metagenic agent itself breaks down and
dissipates completely, leaving every city, every road, every piece of
equipment perfectly intact. 
WORF: Leaving the planet safe to be conquered. Wouldn't using such a
weapon pose as great a risk to the attacker as to the target? 
CRUSHER: That's why metagenics and other biological weapons were
outlawed years ago. Even the Romulans have abided with those
agreements. 
PICARD: Starfleet Intelligence believes that the Cardassians are
developing a new delivery system, one that would protect them from
accidental exposure to the toxin. They believe that the Cardassians are
testing a way of launching dormant metagenic material on a subspace
carrier wave. 
CRUSHER: So they could activate the toxins after the launch, thereby
preventing any accidental exposure. 
PICARD: And because the subspace wave would appear simply as background
radiation, no one would realise what was happening until it was too
late. Now, for the past few weeks, theta-band subspace emissions have
been detected coming from Celtris Three. Those emissions may indicate
that a metagenic delivery system in operation. 
WORF: What do we know about Celtris Three? 
PICARD: Very little. It was thought to be uninhabited until these
emissions were detected. Starfleet believes that the Cardassians may
have a secret research lab located somewhere below the planet surface.
Our orders are to penetrate this Celtris Three installation and
determine if the Cardassians are actually building a metagenic weapon. 
CRUSHER: And if they are? 
PICARD: Destroy it. At any cost. When I was on the Stargazer, we
conducted extensive tests using theta band carrier waves. One of the
reasons I was selected for this mission is my familiarity with the
methods used for generating them. Mister Worf, your presence here is
obvious. Doctor, your job will be to locate and destroy any biotoxins
we may find. 
WORF: Celtris Three is in Cardassian space. How will we get there
undetected? 
PICARD: I know a way of acquiring some discreet transport. Mister Worf,
set a course for Torman Five.

