PICARD TROI DATA RIKER NECHAYEV

[Ready room]

PICARD: Come. 
(Riker enters with a small blonde woman) 
RIKER: May I present Captain Jean-Luc Picard. 
PICARD: Admiral, welcome aboard. 
NECHAYEV: Thank you. That'll be all, Commander. 
(Riker leaves) 
PICARD: Can I get you some coffee? Tea? 
NECHAYEV: Thank you, no, Captain. I'm afraid there's no time for the
usual pleasantries. I'm here to relieve you of command of the
Enterprise. 
(and on that bombshell we're straight into the opening titles) 
[Observation lounge]

NECHAYEV: The Cardassian forces which were recently
withdrawn from the Bajoran sector, have been redeployed along the
Federation border. They have mobilised three divisions of ground troops
and their subspace communications have been increased by fifty percent.
We believe that they're preparing for an incursion into Federation
space. 
RIKER: Are the Cardassians ready for a war? 
NECHAYEV: I didn't say war, Commander, I said incursion. Our
intelligence reports suggests that they'll try to seize one of the
disputed systems along the border. We think they're gambling that the
Federation won't actually go to war over one system. 
TROI: Will we? 
NECHAYEV: I hope we won't need to make that decision. We have decided
to send the Enterprise to meet with the Cardassian representative and
open talks. We're hoping that the presence of the Federation flagship
on the border will send a message to their leadership about just how
seriously we view the situation. 
RIKER: Where's Captain Picard? 
NECHAYEV: The Captain, your Chief Medical Officer, and Security Chief
have been reassigned. That's all I can tell you for now. Do any of you
know Edward Jellico? 
DATA: He is the commanding officer of the Cairo. 
RIKER: I've heard of him. I don't know that any of us have 
NECHAYEV: I'm giving him command of the Enterprise this afternoon.
Captain Jellico helped to negotiate the original armistice two years
ago and I believe he's the most qualified person to lead this mission.
The change of command will take place at thirteen hundred hours. Thank
you. 
(everyone else leaves) 
RIKER: Admiral, with all due respect, it's not necessary to give
Captain Jellico command of the Enterprise just to conduct a
negotiation. 
NECHAYEV: I disagree. The Enterprise will be in a dangerous situation
and I want someone on the Bridge who has a great deal of experience
with the Cardassians. No offence, Commander, but that's not you.

