TROI WORF JELLICO LEMEC PICARD CRUSHER

[Ready room]

(the wall behind the desk is now decorated with
frames pictures from his son) 
JELLICO: Yes? 
TROI: Captain, I think there's been a slight miscommunication. Did you
want to meet with Gul Lemec in here? 
JELLICO: No. The Observation Lounge is appropriate. 
TROI: I see. 
JELLICO: Lemec is a Cardassian, and Cardassians are like timber wolves,
predators, bold in large numbers cautious by themselves, and with an
instinctive need to establish a dominant position in any social
gathering. 
TROI: So you're trying to establish a dominant position by making him
wait for you. The trouble with wolves is that sometimes the fight for
dominance, one of them ends up dead. 
JELLICO: In that case, the trick is to be the wolf that's still
standing at the end.

[Precipice]

CRUSHER: The floor is over five hundred metres down
from here. 
PICARD: There doesn't seem to be a way around. We'll have to rappel
from here. This is sheer granite. We'll have to use fusing pitons. 
CRUSHER: We could try to find another way down. 
PICARD: Unfortunately, that would take several hours. We don't have the
time. 
WORF: You're not afraid of heights, are you, Doctor? 
CRUSHER: Of course not. 
(They get into their harnesses and secure the lines) 
PICARD: Now, remember to control your descent and don't get the lines
tangled. 
CRUSHER: I'll remember. 
PICARD: All right? 
[Observation lounge]

LEMEC: What is going on? I have been waiting here
for over an hour! 
JELLICO: I'm Captain Jellico. I believe you know Commander Riker, and
this is Lieutenant Commander Troi. Let's get to it, shall we? 
LEMEC: This treatment is a deliberate insult to the Cardassian Union. I
have been kept waiting here for over an hour. 
JELLICO: Then I'm sure you're ready to talk. 
LEMEC: I did not agree to allow others into this meeting. 
JELLICO: If it alarms you, I can ask them to leave. 
LEMEC: I am not alarmed. But we did not 
JELLICO: A great many people are depending on our efforts here, Gul
Lemec. We don't need to quibble over minutiae. 
LEMEC: I have here come to negotiate a Federation withdrawal from the
border, not to be dictated to by some mere captain. 
JELLICO: I can see you're not serious about these talks. If the
Cardassian Union truly wishes to discuss peace, they can send someone
who can negotiate in a civilised manner.

