JELLICO TROI DATA LAFORGE

[Engineering]

(Jellico and La Forge climb out of a Jefferies
tube) 
JELLICO: Power transfer levels need to be upgraded by twenty percent.
The efficiency of your warp coils is also unsatisfactory. 
LAFORGE: Coil efficiency is well within specifications, Captain. 
JELLICO: I'm not interested in the specs, Geordi. The efficiency needs
to be raised by at least fifteen percent. 
LAFORGE: Fifteen percent. 
DATA: That is an attainable goal, but it will require realigning the
warp coil and taking the secondary distribution grid offline. 
JELLICO: Very good, Data. That's exactly what I want you to do. 
LAFORGE: If we take this grid offline, we're going to have to shut down
exobiology, the astrophysics lab and geological research. 
JELLICO: We're not on a research mission. Get it done in two days. 
DATA: I believe that is also an attainable goal. If we utilise the
entire Engineering department, there should be sufficient manpower
available to complete the task. 
LAFORGE: Sure, if everybody works around the clock for the next two
days. 
JELLICO: Then you'd better get to it, Geordi. It looks like you have
some work to do. Data.

[Ready room]

(Jellico is arranging a sculpture or something when
the doorbell rings) 
JELLICO: Yes? 
TROI: May I speak with you, Captain? 
JELLICO: Deanna. Come in, come in. 
(there are some child's drawings on his desk.) 
JELLICO: The latest masterpieces from my son. It's an elephant. I
think. 
TROI: Definitely an elephant. 
JELLICO: I'm glad you're here. I'd like to go over the duty roster with
you. 
TROI: I'd be happy to. But first, I'd like to talk about how the change
in command is affecting the crew. 
JELLICO: I've noticed some resistance. 
TROI: I wouldn't call it resistance. More like uncertainty. Most of
them had served under Captain Picard for several years. They knew him,
they knew what he expected. Now they're being asked to adjust to a new
captain and a new way of doing things, and they're uncertain how to
react. 
JELLICO: I see your point. This all could be very unsettling to them. 
TROI: And to you. Perhaps everyone just needs some time. Time for you
to get to know and trust the crew, and time for them to understand how
you want things done. 
JELLICO: I'm glad you brought this to my attention, Deanna.
Unfortunately, I don't have time for a honeymoon with the crew. You've
clearly given this a lot of thought, so I'd like you to take charge of
the morale situation. Please see to it that they make the adjustment to
the new routine quickly and easily. I have a meeting with the new
Security Chief in five minutes, so the duty roster will have to wait.
Thank you, Counsellor. By the way. I prefer a certain formality on the
Bridge. I'd appreciate it if you wore standard uniform when you're on
duty. 
TROI: Of course, sir.

