TROI WORF PICARD RIKER SOLDIER CRUSHER DATA NECHAYEV
bridge troi ve positioned send soldier chief ask respect

[Observation lounge]

NECHAYEV: The Cardassian forces which were recently
withdrawn from the Bajoran sector, have been redeployed along the
Federation border. They have mobilised three divisions of ground troops
and their subspace communications have been increased by fifty percent.
We believe that they're preparing for an incursion into Federation
space. 
RIKER: Are the Cardassians ready for a war? 
NECHAYEV: I didn't say war, Commander, I said incursion. Our
intelligence reports suggests that they'll try to seize one of the
disputed systems along the border. We think they're gambling that the
Federation won't actually go to war over one system. 
TROI: Will we? 
NECHAYEV: I hope we won't need to make that decision. We have decided
to send the Enterprise to meet with the Cardassian representative and
open talks. We're hoping that the presence of the Federation flagship
on the border will send a message to their leadership about just how
seriously we view the situation. 
RIKER: Where's Captain Picard? 
NECHAYEV: The Captain, your Chief Medical Officer, and Security Chief
have been reassigned. That's all I can tell you for now. Do any of you
know Edward Jellico? 
DATA: He is the commanding officer of the Cairo. 
RIKER: I've heard of him. I don't know that any of us have 
NECHAYEV: I'm giving him command of the Enterprise this afternoon.
Captain Jellico helped to negotiate the original armistice two years
ago and I believe he's the most qualified person to lead this mission.
The change of command will take place at thirteen hundred hours. Thank
you. 
(everyone else leaves) 
RIKER: Admiral, with all due respect, it's not necessary to give
Captain Jellico command of the Enterprise just to conduct a
negotiation. 
NECHAYEV: I disagree. The Enterprise will be in a dangerous situation
and I want someone on the Bridge who has a great deal of experience
with the Cardassians. No offence, Commander, but that's not you.

[Holodeck caves]

(black-clad Worf and Beverly run along a tunnel
then set a forcefield to protect their rear. A Cardassian soldier
confronts them) 
SOLDIER: Halt! 
PICARD: Computer, freeze programme. You were five seconds slower that
time. 
WORF: You increased the difficulty level, sir. 
PICARD: Mister Worf, it's going to be far more difficult where we're
going. 
CRUSHER: Which is where exactly? 
PICARD: I'm sorry, I can't tell you that yet. 
WORF: It would be helpful to know something about our mission. 
PICARD: Mister Worf, I have my orders. I'm sure you understand that.
Now Doctor, this deflector wasn't set properly. It must be positioned
so that the emitter array blocks the entire passageway, or it's
useless. 
CRUSHER: Sorry. I was concentrating on getting away from the last
Cardassian. Or maybe it was the falling rocks. 
PICARD: I understand this is difficult. All I can do is ask you to
trust me. 
CRUSHER: All right, let's do it again. 
PICARD: All right, Mister Worf. I want you to time the Doctor and me
through that first tunnel. And this time we're going to pick up those
five seconds.

