JELLICO RIKER LEMEC MADRED PICARD

[Observation lounge]

JELLICO: Gul Lemec, I assure you that what the
Federation wants above all, is the preservation of peace. 
LEMEC: Then how do you explain the fact that a Federation team launched
an unprovoked assault on Cardassian territory less than fourteen hours
ago? 
JELLICO: I don't know what you're talking about. 
LEMEC: Then let me explain. Captain Jean-Luc Picard, Lieutenant Worf,
and Doctor Beverly Crusher landed on Celtris Three, attacked one of our
outposts in a brutal assault, and killed over fifty five men, women and
children. 
JELLICO: What evidence do you have of that? 
LEMEC: We have all the evidence we need. We have Captain Picard. 
RIKER: Is he alive? 
LEMEC: The Cardassian Union has yet to decided how it will respond to
this latest provocation. But rest assured, we will respond. 
(the Cardassians leave) 
RIKER: Is there any truth in what he's saying? 
JELLICO: Captain Picard and the others were sent to investigate reports
of a metagenic weapon on Celtris Three. It's possible that they may
have been captured. But if they did escape, they'll head for the Lyshan
system. The Enterprise is supposed to meet them there in eight hours.
Will, I want you to take a shuttlecraft and head for the rendezvous
point. The Enterprise will have to remain here until the endgame with
Gul Lemec is played out. 
RIKER: Aye, sir. 
[Interrogation room]

(Picard is brought in blindfolded) 
MADRED: Captain Picard. 
PICARD: I demand to see a neutral representative as required by the
Federation-Cardassian peace treaty. 
(Madred removes the blindfold and the guards leave) 
MADRED: We have already sent a message to Tohvun Three, the nearest
neutral planet. They assure us they will dispatch someone immediately.
Will you allow me to remove your restraints? (Picard holds up his
hands.) I understand that you are a student of archaeology. Did you
know that Cardassia boasts some of the most ancient and splendid ruins
in the entire galaxy? 
PICARD: I know that the burial vaults of the First Hebitian
civilisation are said to be magnificent. 
MADRED: Apparently when they were first unearthed two hundred years
ago, they were. The burial vaults contained unimaginably beautiful
artefacts made of jevonite, a rare, breathtaking stone. But most of
those objects are gone. 
PICARD: What happened to them? 
MADRED: What happens to impoverished societies. The tombs were
plundered, priceless treasures stolen, a few were preserved in museums
but even those were eventually sold in order to pay for our war
efforts. 
PICARD: That war cost you hundreds of thousands of lives. It depleted
your food supplies, left your population weakened and miserable and yet
you risk another war. 
MADRED: Let's not waste time arguing about issues we can't resolve.
Would you care to tour the Hebitian burial vaults? 
PICARD: What I would like is to be returned to my ship. 
MADRED: My dear Captain, you are a criminal. You have been apprehended
invading one of our secret facilities. The least
that will happen is for you to stand trial and be punished. But I am
offering you the opportunity for that experience to be civilised. 
PICARD: What is the price of that opportunity? 
MADRED: Cooperation. We need to know the Federation's defence strategy
for Minos Korva. 
PICARD: You've injected me with drugs. Surely you must realise that
I've already answered truthfully every question you've put to me. 
MADRED: Captain, we have gone to great lengths to lure you here because
we know that in the event of an invasion, the Enterprise will be the
command ship for the sector encompassing Minos Korva. 
PICARD: Then it seems you have more knowledge of the situation than I. 
(two guards come in and take hold of Picard. He struggles.) 
MADRED: Wasted energy, Captain. You might come to wish you hadn't
expended it in such a futile effort. 
PICARD: Torture is expressly forbidden by the terms of the Seldonis
Four convention governing treatment of prisoners of war. 
(a metal piece is lowered from the ceiling, and Madred takes a knife
from his desk) 
MADRED: Are you in good health? Do you have any physical ailments I
should know about? (the knife) Beautiful, isn't it? The stone is
jevonite. And now you know why it is so highly prized. From this point
on, you will enjoy no privilege of rank, no privileges of person. From
now on, I will refer to you only as human. You have no other identity. 
(Madred cuts Picard's clothes off and leaves them around his ankles.
Naked, his hands are manacled and attacked to the metal piece above his
head. Then the piece is raised so Picard is hanging just above the
floor. In other words, a form of crucifixion.) 

First Officer's log, supplemental. I have returned
from the rendezvous point in the Lyshan system with Doctor Crusher and
Lieutenant Worf. Captain Picard's fate is still unknown.

