LAFORGE WORF PICARD JELLICO CRUSHER DATA MADRED

[Interrogation room]

(Picard is lying on the floor, singing through
parched lips) 
PICARD: Sur le pont d'Avignon on y danse on y danse. 
MADRED: Wake up. Where were you? 
PICARD: At home. Sunday dinner. We would all sing afterward. 
MADRED: What a charming picture. The Picard family, voices raised in
song. Is this what's keeping you from breaking? Memories of home and
hearth? Images of happier times? I must congratulate you. You're
remarkably strong willed. I see no point in holding you further. You
may go. Someone will give you clean clothing before we return you to
your ship. 
(the door is opened. Picard slowly gets to his feet and shuffles
towards it) 
MADRED: We will get what we need from the human female. 
PICARD: What female are you referring to? 
MADRED: The human who was part of your abortive assault team, of
course. Doctor Beverly Crusher. 
PICARD: What have you done to her? 
MADRED: Not a thing. She's quite safe. I wanted to finish my interviews
with you before I interrogated her. I had hoped it might not be
necessary. 
PICARD: Lieutenant Worf? 
MADRED: He left us few options. We had to kill him. I'm more optimistic
about getting what we need from the woman. 
PICARD: Doctor Crusher has no knowledge of any of Starfleet's plans.
She's a Medical officer. 
MADRED: You might be right. I'll have to determine that for myself. 
(Picard sits in the chair) 
MADRED: Are you choosing to stay with me? Excellent! I can't tell you
how pleased that makes me.

[Observation lounge]

JELLICO: Starfleet now believes the Cardassians are
preparing to invade Minos Korva. I'm convinced their invasion fleet is
hiding in the McAllister Nebula. I intend to hit them before they leave
it. 
LAFORGE: Captain, what if you're wrong? What if the Cardassians are in
that nebula to conduct scientific research? 
JELLICO: You'd have to have some pretty good evidence to convince me of
that. 
CRUSHER: You're still gambling hundreds of lives. 
JELLICO: This discussion is moot. The plan has been approved and we are
going ahead. Mister Data, by your calculations, how long could the
Cardassian ships stay in the nebula? 
DATA: In seventeen hours their hull degradation will reach dangerous
levels. They will have to leave before that. 
JELLICO: All right. Worf, prepare a series of five hundred antimatter
mines with magnetic targeting capabilities. 
WORF: Aye, sir. 
JELLICO: Geordi, we're going to need a shuttle specially outfitted to
operate in the nebula by fourteen hundred hours. Beverly, you'll need
to 
CRUSHER: Have Sickbay ready for the casualties you're about to send me.

JELLICO: That's right. Dismissed.

[Interrogation room]

(Madred is having an egg for his meal) 
MADRED: Oh, you're awake. Have something to eat. I insist. Boiled
taspar egg. It's a delicacy I'm happy to share with you. 
(Madred gives Picard a knife to slice the top off the very large egg,
but this one isn't boiled. The contents are still alive and moving.
Picard downs it in one) 
MADRED: Wonderful. Wonderful. I like you, human. Most people become ill
at the sight of live taspar. I remember the first time I ate a live
taspar. I was six years old and living on the streets of Lakat. There
was a band of children, four, five, six years old, some even smaller,
desperately trying to survive. We were thin, scrawny little animals,
constantly hungry, always cold. We slept together in doorways, like
packs of wild gettles, for warmth. Once, I found a nest. Taspars had
mated and built a nest in the eave of a burnt-out building and I found
three eggs in it. It was like finding treasure. I cracked one open on
the spot and ate it, very much as you just did. I planned to save the
other two. They would keep me alive for another week. But of
course, an older boy saw them and wanted them, and he got them. But he
had to break my arm to do it. 
PICARD: Must be rewarding to you to repay others for all those years of
misery. 
MADRED: What do you mean? 
PICARD: Torture has never been a reliable means of extracting
information. It is ultimately self-defeating as a means of control. One
wonders that it's still practiced. 
MADRED: I fail to see where this analysis is leading. 
PICARD: Whenever I look at you now, I won't see a powerful Cardassian
warrior. I will see a six year old boy who is powerless to protect
himself. 
MADRED: Be quiet. 
PICARD: In spite of all you've done to me, I find you a pitiable man. 
MADRED: Picard, stop it, or I will turn this on and leave you here in
agony all night. 
PICARD: Ah! You called me Picard. 
MADRED: What are the Federation's defence plans for Minos Korva? 
PICARD: There are four lights. 
(Madred uses the agoniser.) 
MADRED: There are five lights. How many do you see now? 
PICARD: (in agony) You are six years old. Weak and helpless. You cannot
hurt me. 
MADRED: How many? 
PICARD: Sur le pont d'Avignon, on y danse

