JELLICO RIKER CRUSHER MADRED PICARD

[Sickbay]

CRUSHER: There was no chance to go back for the
Captain. We barely made it back to the Ferengi cargo ship ourselves. 
JELLICO: You were smart not to try. 
CRUSHER: I don't feel so smart. 
JELLICO: Get some rest, Doctor. Will. 
[Corridor]

JELLICO: I want Geordi to analyse the readings from
Beverly's tricorder. Tell him to scrutinize every detail of those
caverns on Celtris Three. 
RIKER: Aye, sir. Request permission to begin planning a rescue
operation. 
JELLICO: I know you were close to him, Will, but we don't even know if
he's still alive. Under the circumstances, a rescue mission would be
foolhardy. 
RIKER: Shouldn't we assume that he is alive until it's been proved
otherwise? We cannot just abandon him. 
JELLICO: He's gone. I'm sorry, Will, but you're going to have to accept
that. I want those tricorder readings analysed by fourteen hundred
hours. 
RIKER: Yes, sir.

[interrogation room]

(Picard is lower - his feet are on the floor and
his knees bent) 
MADRED: Good morning. I trust you slept well? 
(Picard taken down. He can't lower his arms completely. Madred pours a
drink from a flask) 
MADRED: Thirsty? I would imagine so. Well, It's time to move on. 
PICARD: I've told you all that I know. 
MADRED: Yes, I'm sure you have. (he turns on four spotlights behind his
desk) How many lights do you see there? 
PICARD: I see four lights. 
MADRED: No, there are five. Are you quite sure? 
PICARD: There are four lights. 
MADRED: Perhaps you're aware of the incision on your chest. While you
were under the influence of our drugs, you were implanted with a small
device. It's a remarkable invention. By entering commands in this PADD,
I can produce pain in any part of your body at various levels of
severity. Forgive me. I don't enjoy this but I must demonstrate. It
will make everything clearer. 
(Picard falls to his knees in agony) 
MADRED: Surprising, isn't it? Most people feel at first that they can
steel themselves against it but they're completely unprepared for the
intensity of the pain. That was the lowest possible setting. 
PICARD: I know nothing about Minos Korva. 
MADRED: But I've told you that I believe you. I didn't ask you about
Minos Korva. I asked how many lights you see. 
PICARD: There are four lights. 
MADRED: I don't understand how you can be so mistaken.

