RIKER WORF RIKER [OC] PICARD LEMEC COMPUTER JELLICO LEMEC [on viewscreen] MADRED
life big ll welcome live long bad setting shuttlecraft

[Bridge]

WORF: Captain, the shuttlecraft is emerging from
the nebula. 
JELLICO: Enterprise to shuttle. Were you successful, Commander? 
RIKER [OC]: Aye, sir. The mines are laid. 
JELLICO: Very well. Red alert. Stand by to detonate the mines on my
command. 
WORF: Standing by. 
JELLICO: Open a channel to the Reklar. 
LEMEC [on viewscreen]: This is Cardassian territory, Captain. Your
presence here is another deliberate provocation to 
JELLICO: I'm not going to argue with you, Gul Lemec. Every one of your
ships has a mine on its belly, my finger's on the button, and you're in
a very bad position. 
LEMEC [on viewscreen]: You can't intimidate us. 
JELLICO: Mister Worf, set off alpha four two. 
WORF: Aye, sir. 
(the Reklar shakes) 
JELLICO: That was just a baby. The big boys are sitting on your hull
just waiting for me to say the word. 
LEMEC [on viewscreen]: What are your terms? 
JELLICO: Your ships will leave the nebula one by one. Each ship will
eject its primary phaser coil before setting course for the nearest
Cardassian base. 
LEMEC [on viewscreen]: But that will leave us defenceless. 
JELLICO: Mister Worf, prepare to detonate 
LEMEC [on viewscreen]: I will agree to your terms. 
JELLICO: Excellent. Oh, and one more thing. I understand you're holding
a Starfleet officer named Jean-Luc Picard. I expect him returned.
immediately.

[Interrogation room]

(Picard has been left alone with the agoniser
control pad. He starts to smash it against the desk as Madred enters.) 
MADRED: That won't help. I have many more. 
PICARD: Still, it felt good. 
MADRED: Enjoy your good feelings while you can. There may not be many
more of them. I've just received word. There's been a battle. The
Enterprise is burning in space. The invasion of Minos Korva has been
successful. 
PICARD: I don't believe you. 
MADRED: There's no need for any further information from you. Our
troops were successful in spite of your refusal to help me. You might
have saved yourself a great deal of torment by yielding at the
beginning. 
PICARD: I want to see neutral representative. 
MADRED: There is no such person. The word will be that you perished
with your crew. No one will ever know that you are here with us, as you
will be for a long, long time. You do, however, have a choice. You can
live out your life in misery, held here, subject to my whims, or you
can live in comfort with good food and warm clothing, women as you
desire them, allowed to pursue your studies of philosophy and history.
I would enjoy debating with you. You have a keen mind. It's up to you.
A life of ease, of reflection and intellectual challenge, or this. 
PICARD: What must I do? 
MADRED: Nothing, really. Tell me how many lights you see. How many? How
many lights? This is your last chance. The guards are coming. Don't be
a stubborn fool. How many? 
(Gul Lemec enters) 
LEMEC: You told me he would be ready to go. 
MADRED: We had some unfinished business. 
LEMEC: Get him cleaned up. A ship is waiting to take him back to the
Enterprise. Captain Picard, if you'll go with the guards, they'll take
care of you. 
PICARD: There are four lights!

[Bridge]

(Picard and Riker enter. Troi is still in her blue
uniform but Data is back in his gold one with two pips.) 
JELLICO: Captain on the Bridge. Welcome home, Jean-Luc. 
PICARD: Thank you. 
JELLICO: Just the way you left it, maybe a little better. Computer,
transfer all command codes to Captain Jean-Luc Picard. Voice
authorisation Jellico alpha three one. 
COMPUTER: Transfer complete. USS Enterprise now under command of
Captain Jean-Luc Picard. 
PICARD: I relieve you, sir. 
JELLICO: I stand relieved. (to all) It's been an honour serving with
you. 
(Jellico leaves with knives sticking out of his back) 
PICARD: You have the Bridge, Number One. 
RIKER: Aye, sir.

