TROI LAFORGE PICARD LEMEC RIKER JILORRA JELLICO DATA MADRED

[Observation lounge]

MADRED [on PADD]: What is your current assignment?

PICARD [on PADD]: Special operations on Celtris Three. 
LEMEC: Do you have anything to say? 
JELLICO: Captain Picard was not acting under my orders. 
LEMEC: And if we wish to execute him? 
RIKER: Under the terms of the Selonis Convention, Captain Picard must 
LEMEC: The Selonis Convention applies to prisoners of war, which means
you would have to acknowledge that he was captured during a mission
authorised by the Federation. Are you willing to make such an
admission? 
JELLICO: No. 
LEMEC: Then he will be treated as a terrorist. 
JELLICO: It's not my concern. 
LEMEC: There is, of course, an alternative. 
JELLICO: I'm listening. 
LEMEC: If the Federation agreed to a complete and immediate withdrawal
from this sector, then we would be disposed to release Captain Picard
and forget about this incident. 
JELLICO: I'll have to discuss this with my superiors. 
LEMEC: Of course. You have seven hours. 
(the Cardassians leave) 
TROI: What are you going to do? 
JELLICO: Send a message to Admiral Necheyev. I recommend that she
reject Lemec's proposal and deploy additional starships along the
border. 
RIKER: What about Captain Picard? 
(Jellico shakes his head) 
RIKER: I'm not suggesting you trade an entire star system for one man's
life, but you've got to acknowledge that these were Federation orders
and he is a prisoner of war. 
JELLICO: No. 
RIKER: He will have the protection of the Seldonis Convention. 
JELLICO: That would play right into Gul Lemec's hand. He's just waiting
for some sign of weakness on our part before he starts making more
demands. 
RIKER: I can't believe you're willing to sacrifice Captain Picard's
life as a negotiating tactic. 
TROI: Will! Captain, we're all concerned about 
JELLICO: Are you questioning my judgment, Commander? 
RIKER: As First Officer, it is my responsibility to point out any
actions that may be mistakes by a commanding officer. sir. 
JELLICO: Then maybe it's time you found other responsibilities. You're
relieved. Don't make me confine you to quarters as well. 
RIKER: Sir.

[Ready room]

(Data is now wearing command red and three pips) 
JELLICO: They went to a lot of trouble to lure a Federation team to
that planet. Why? 
DATA: It is possible that the Cardassians were specifically interested
in capturing Captain Picard. 
LAFORGE: Why do you say that? 
DATA: The metagenic weapon they were supposedly developing used a
theta-band subspace delivery system. Captain Picard is one of only
three Starfleet Captains with extensive experience in theta-band
devices. The other two are no longer in Starfleet. 
JELLICO: So they tailored a fake weapon to lure Picard. But why? They
must've known we'd change all his access codes and security protocols. 
LAFORGE: Maybe they were interested in something that he did in the
past. Something that happened while he was Captain of the Enterprise. 
JELLICO: Or something he was going to do in the future. In case of a
Cardassian attack, the Enterprise will be assigned as Command ship for
this sector. If the Cardassians got wind of that 
LAFORGE: They might have assumed Captain Picard would know those
defence plans. 
DATA: If your theory is correct, the Cardassians may be planning an
attack somewhere in this sector. 
JELLICO: The question is, where? Geordi, I want you to conduct a
discreet scan of Gul Lemec's ship. Look for anything unusual, anything
that might indicate where they've been lately. 
LAFORGE: Aye, sir. 

[Interrogation room]

(Madred has brought his daughter to work, and a pet
in a cage. Picard is sitting slumped in the chair, wearing a loose
tunic) 
MADRED: I want you to be very careful with your wompat from now on, Jil
Orra. Now that she's separated from her mother, she depends on you. 
JIL ORRA: I will, father. Do humans have mothers and fathers? 
MADRED: Yes, but human mothers and fathers don't love their children as
we do. They're not the same as we are. 
JIL ORRA: Will you read to me tonight? 
MADRED: Yes, of course I will. I'll see you later. 
(Jil leaves carrying her pet) 
PICARD: Your daughter is lovely. 
MADRED: Yes, I think so. And unusually bright. It's amazing, isn't it,
the way they're able to sneak into your heart. I must admit, I was
completely unprepared for the power she had over me from the moment she
was born. 
PICARD: I'm surprised that you let her come in here. 
MADRED: Why? 
PICARD: To expose a child to this. To someone who is suffering. To see
that it is you that inflict that suffering. 
MADRED: From the time Jil Orra could crawl she's been taught about the
enemies of the Cardassians, and that enemies deserve their fate. 
PICARD: When children learn to devalue others, they can devalue anyone,
including their parents. 
MADRED: What a blind, narrow view you have. What an arrogant man you
are. What do you know of Cardassian history? 
PICARD: I know that once you were a peaceful people with a rich
spiritual life. 
MADRED: And what did peace and spirituality get us? People starved by
the millions. Bodies went unburied. Disease was rampant. Suffering was
unimaginable. 
PICARD: Since the military took over hundreds of thousands more have
died. 
MADRED: But we are feeding the people. We acquired territory during the
wars. We developed new resources. We initiated a rebuilding programme.
We have mandated agricultural programmes. That is what the military has
done for Cardassia. And because of that, my daughter will never worry
about going hungry. 
PICARD: Her belly may be full, but her spirit will be empty. 
(Madred hits him) 
MADRED: Shall we begin again? How many lights are there? 
PICARD: What lights? 
(and he gets punished for that)

