LAFORGE WORF JELLICO PICARD CRUSHER DATA MADRED

[Bridge]

(according to quantum resonance scan 047) 
LAFORGE: It looks like they had some minor hull degradation along their
warp nacelles. The distribution pattern indicates a recent exposure to
a molecular dispersion field. 
JELLICO: Where could they have run into a dispersion field? 
LAFORGE: The McAllister C Five nebula's just across the border. It's
approximately seven light years from Federation space. 
JELLICO: Could there be Cardassian ships inside the McAllister nebula? 
LAFORGE: It's possible, but they wouldn't be able to stay in there for
very long. The particle flux in the nebula would begin to break down a
ship's hull just after seventy two hours. 
JELLICO: Is there a Federation system near the McAllister nebula that
might interest the Cardassians? 
LAFORGE: Minos Korva is only eleven light years from the nebula, and
the Cardassians tried to annex it during the war. 
JELLICO: Data, I want to be at Minos Korva in one hour. 
DATA: Aye, sir. Set course three five zero mark two one five and engage
at warp eight point five.

[Interrogation room]

(Picard is lying on the floor, singing through
parched lips) 
PICARD: Sur le pont d'Avignon on y danse on y danse. 
MADRED: Wake up. Where were you? 
PICARD: At home. Sunday dinner. We would all sing afterward. 
MADRED: What a charming picture. The Picard family, voices raised in
song. Is this what's keeping you from breaking? Memories of home and
hearth? Images of happier times? I must congratulate you. You're
remarkably strong willed. I see no point in holding you further. You
may go. Someone will give you clean clothing before we return you to
your ship. 
(the door is opened. Picard slowly gets to his feet and shuffles
towards it) 
MADRED: We will get what we need from the human female. 
PICARD: What female are you referring to? 
MADRED: The human who was part of your abortive assault team, of
course. Doctor Beverly Crusher. 
PICARD: What have you done to her? 
MADRED: Not a thing. She's quite safe. I wanted to finish my interviews
with you before I interrogated her. I had hoped it might not be
necessary. 
PICARD: Lieutenant Worf? 
MADRED: He left us few options. We had to kill him. I'm more optimistic
about getting what we need from the woman. 
PICARD: Doctor Crusher has no knowledge of any of Starfleet's plans.
She's a Medical officer. 
MADRED: You might be right. I'll have to determine that for myself. 
(Picard sits in the chair) 
MADRED: Are you choosing to stay with me? Excellent! I can't tell you
how pleased that makes me.

[Observation lounge]

JELLICO: Starfleet now believes the Cardassians are
preparing to invade Minos Korva. I'm convinced their invasion fleet is
hiding in the McAllister Nebula. I intend to hit them before they leave
it. 
LAFORGE: Captain, what if you're wrong? What if the Cardassians are in
that nebula to conduct scientific research? 
JELLICO: You'd have to have some pretty good evidence to convince me of
that. 
CRUSHER: You're still gambling hundreds of lives. 
JELLICO: This discussion is moot. The plan has been approved and we are
going ahead. Mister Data, by your calculations, how long could the
Cardassian ships stay in the nebula? 
DATA: In seventeen hours their hull degradation will reach dangerous
levels. They will have to leave before that. 
JELLICO: All right. Worf, prepare a series of five hundred antimatter
mines with magnetic targeting capabilities. 
WORF: Aye, sir. 
JELLICO: Geordi, we're going to need a shuttle specially outfitted to
operate in the nebula by fourteen hundred hours. Beverly, you'll need
to 
CRUSHER: Have Sickbay ready for the casualties you're about to send me.

JELLICO: That's right. Dismissed.

