LAFORGE PICARD JILORRA JELLICO DATA MADRED

[Interrogation room]

(Madred has brought his daughter to work, and a pet
in a cage. Picard is sitting slumped in the chair, wearing a loose
tunic) 
MADRED: I want you to be very careful with your wompat from now on, Jil
Orra. Now that she's separated from her mother, she depends on you. 
JIL ORRA: I will, father. Do humans have mothers and fathers? 
MADRED: Yes, but human mothers and fathers don't love their children as
we do. They're not the same as we are. 
JIL ORRA: Will you read to me tonight? 
MADRED: Yes, of course I will. I'll see you later. 
(Jil leaves carrying her pet) 
PICARD: Your daughter is lovely. 
MADRED: Yes, I think so. And unusually bright. It's amazing, isn't it,
the way they're able to sneak into your heart. I must admit, I was
completely unprepared for the power she had over me from the moment she
was born. 
PICARD: I'm surprised that you let her come in here. 
MADRED: Why? 
PICARD: To expose a child to this. To someone who is suffering. To see
that it is you that inflict that suffering. 
MADRED: From the time Jil Orra could crawl she's been taught about the
enemies of the Cardassians, and that enemies deserve their fate. 
PICARD: When children learn to devalue others, they can devalue anyone,
including their parents. 
MADRED: What a blind, narrow view you have. What an arrogant man you
are. What do you know of Cardassian history? 
PICARD: I know that once you were a peaceful people with a rich
spiritual life. 
MADRED: And what did peace and spirituality get us? People starved by
the millions. Bodies went unburied. Disease was rampant. Suffering was
unimaginable. 
PICARD: Since the military took over hundreds of thousands more have
died. 
MADRED: But we are feeding the people. We acquired territory during the
wars. We developed new resources. We initiated a rebuilding programme.
We have mandated agricultural programmes. That is what the military has
done for Cardassia. And because of that, my daughter will never worry
about going hungry. 
PICARD: Her belly may be full, but her spirit will be empty. 
(Madred hits him) 
MADRED: Shall we begin again? How many lights are there? 
PICARD: What lights? 
(and he gets punished for that)

[Bridge]

(according to quantum resonance scan 047) 
LAFORGE: It looks like they had some minor hull degradation along their
warp nacelles. The distribution pattern indicates a recent exposure to
a molecular dispersion field. 
JELLICO: Where could they have run into a dispersion field? 
LAFORGE: The McAllister C Five nebula's just across the border. It's
approximately seven light years from Federation space. 
JELLICO: Could there be Cardassian ships inside the McAllister nebula? 
LAFORGE: It's possible, but they wouldn't be able to stay in there for
very long. The particle flux in the nebula would begin to break down a
ship's hull just after seventy two hours. 
JELLICO: Is there a Federation system near the McAllister nebula that
might interest the Cardassians? 
LAFORGE: Minos Korva is only eleven light years from the nebula, and
the Cardassians tried to annex it during the war. 
JELLICO: Data, I want to be at Minos Korva in one hour. 
DATA: Aye, sir. Set course three five zero mark two one five and engage
at warp eight point five.

[Interrogation room]

(Picard is lying on the floor, singing through
parched lips) 
PICARD: Sur le pont d'Avignon on y danse on y danse. 
MADRED: Wake up. Where were you? 
PICARD: At home. Sunday dinner. We would all sing afterward. 
MADRED: What a charming picture. The Picard family, voices raised in
song. Is this what's keeping you from breaking? Memories of home and
hearth? Images of happier times? I must congratulate you. You're
remarkably strong willed. I see no point in holding you further. You
may go. Someone will give you clean clothing before we return you to
your ship. 
(the door is opened. Picard slowly gets to his feet and shuffles
towards it) 
MADRED: We will get what we need from the human female. 
PICARD: What female are you referring to? 
MADRED: The human who was part of your abortive assault team, of
course. Doctor Beverly Crusher. 
PICARD: What have you done to her? 
MADRED: Not a thing. She's quite safe. I wanted to finish my interviews
with you before I interrogated her. I had hoped it might not be
necessary. 
PICARD: Lieutenant Worf? 
MADRED: He left us few options. We had to kill him. I'm more optimistic
about getting what we need from the woman. 
PICARD: Doctor Crusher has no knowledge of any of Starfleet's plans.
She's a Medical officer. 
MADRED: You might be right. I'll have to determine that for myself. 
(Picard sits in the chair) 
MADRED: Are you choosing to stay with me? Excellent! I can't tell you
how pleased that makes me.

