TROI LAFORGE PICARD LEMEC RIKER JELLICO DATA MADRED

[interrogation room]

(Picard is lower - his feet are on the floor and
his knees bent) 
MADRED: Good morning. I trust you slept well? 
(Picard taken down. He can't lower his arms completely. Madred pours a
drink from a flask) 
MADRED: Thirsty? I would imagine so. Well, It's time to move on. 
PICARD: I've told you all that I know. 
MADRED: Yes, I'm sure you have. (he turns on four spotlights behind his
desk) How many lights do you see there? 
PICARD: I see four lights. 
MADRED: No, there are five. Are you quite sure? 
PICARD: There are four lights. 
MADRED: Perhaps you're aware of the incision on your chest. While you
were under the influence of our drugs, you were implanted with a small
device. It's a remarkable invention. By entering commands in this PADD,
I can produce pain in any part of your body at various levels of
severity. Forgive me. I don't enjoy this but I must demonstrate. It
will make everything clearer. 
(Picard falls to his knees in agony) 
MADRED: Surprising, isn't it? Most people feel at first that they can
steel themselves against it but they're completely unprepared for the
intensity of the pain. That was the lowest possible setting. 
PICARD: I know nothing about Minos Korva. 
MADRED: But I've told you that I believe you. I didn't ask you about
Minos Korva. I asked how many lights you see. 
PICARD: There are four lights. 
MADRED: I don't understand how you can be so mistaken.

[Observation lounge]

MADRED [on PADD]: What is your current assignment?

PICARD [on PADD]: Special operations on Celtris Three. 
LEMEC: Do you have anything to say? 
JELLICO: Captain Picard was not acting under my orders. 
LEMEC: And if we wish to execute him? 
RIKER: Under the terms of the Selonis Convention, Captain Picard must 
LEMEC: The Selonis Convention applies to prisoners of war, which means
you would have to acknowledge that he was captured during a mission
authorised by the Federation. Are you willing to make such an
admission? 
JELLICO: No. 
LEMEC: Then he will be treated as a terrorist. 
JELLICO: It's not my concern. 
LEMEC: There is, of course, an alternative. 
JELLICO: I'm listening. 
LEMEC: If the Federation agreed to a complete and immediate withdrawal
from this sector, then we would be disposed to release Captain Picard
and forget about this incident. 
JELLICO: I'll have to discuss this with my superiors. 
LEMEC: Of course. You have seven hours. 
(the Cardassians leave) 
TROI: What are you going to do? 
JELLICO: Send a message to Admiral Necheyev. I recommend that she
reject Lemec's proposal and deploy additional starships along the
border. 
RIKER: What about Captain Picard? 
(Jellico shakes his head) 
RIKER: I'm not suggesting you trade an entire star system for one man's
life, but you've got to acknowledge that these were Federation orders
and he is a prisoner of war. 
JELLICO: No. 
RIKER: He will have the protection of the Seldonis Convention. 
JELLICO: That would play right into Gul Lemec's hand. He's just waiting
for some sign of weakness on our part before he starts making more
demands. 
RIKER: I can't believe you're willing to sacrifice Captain Picard's
life as a negotiating tactic. 
TROI: Will! Captain, we're all concerned about 
JELLICO: Are you questioning my judgment, Commander? 
RIKER: As First Officer, it is my responsibility to point out any
actions that may be mistakes by a commanding officer. sir. 
JELLICO: Then maybe it's time you found other responsibilities. You're
relieved. Don't make me confine you to quarters as well. 
RIKER: Sir.

[Ready room]

(Data is now wearing command red and three pips) 
JELLICO: They went to a lot of trouble to lure a Federation team to
that planet. Why? 
DATA: It is possible that the Cardassians were specifically interested
in capturing Captain Picard. 
LAFORGE: Why do you say that? 
DATA: The metagenic weapon they were supposedly developing used a
theta-band subspace delivery system. Captain Picard is one of only
three Starfleet Captains with extensive experience in theta-band
devices. The other two are no longer in Starfleet. 
JELLICO: So they tailored a fake weapon to lure Picard. But why? They
must've known we'd change all his access codes and security protocols. 
LAFORGE: Maybe they were interested in something that he did in the
past. Something that happened while he was Captain of the Enterprise. 
JELLICO: Or something he was going to do in the future. In case of a
Cardassian attack, the Enterprise will be assigned as Command ship for
this sector. If the Cardassians got wind of that 
LAFORGE: They might have assumed Captain Picard would know those
defence plans. 
DATA: If your theory is correct, the Cardassians may be planning an
attack somewhere in this sector. 
JELLICO: The question is, where? Geordi, I want you to conduct a
discreet scan of Gul Lemec's ship. Look for anything unusual, anything
that might indicate where they've been lately. 
LAFORGE: Aye, sir. 

