LAFORGE JELLICO JILORRA PICARD DATA MADRED

[Ready room]

(Data is now wearing command red and three pips) 
JELLICO: They went to a lot of trouble to lure a Federation team to
that planet. Why? 
DATA: It is possible that the Cardassians were specifically interested
in capturing Captain Picard. 
LAFORGE: Why do you say that? 
DATA: The metagenic weapon they were supposedly developing used a
theta-band subspace delivery system. Captain Picard is one of only
three Starfleet Captains with extensive experience in theta-band
devices. The other two are no longer in Starfleet. 
JELLICO: So they tailored a fake weapon to lure Picard. But why? They
must've known we'd change all his access codes and security protocols. 
LAFORGE: Maybe they were interested in something that he did in the
past. Something that happened while he was Captain of the Enterprise. 
JELLICO: Or something he was going to do in the future. In case of a
Cardassian attack, the Enterprise will be assigned as Command ship for
this sector. If the Cardassians got wind of that 
LAFORGE: They might have assumed Captain Picard would know those
defence plans. 
DATA: If your theory is correct, the Cardassians may be planning an
attack somewhere in this sector. 
JELLICO: The question is, where? Geordi, I want you to conduct a
discreet scan of Gul Lemec's ship. Look for anything unusual, anything
that might indicate where they've been lately. 
LAFORGE: Aye, sir. 

[Interrogation room]

(Madred has brought his daughter to work, and a pet
in a cage. Picard is sitting slumped in the chair, wearing a loose
tunic) 
MADRED: I want you to be very careful with your wompat from now on, Jil
Orra. Now that she's separated from her mother, she depends on you. 
JIL ORRA: I will, father. Do humans have mothers and fathers? 
MADRED: Yes, but human mothers and fathers don't love their children as
we do. They're not the same as we are. 
JIL ORRA: Will you read to me tonight? 
MADRED: Yes, of course I will. I'll see you later. 
(Jil leaves carrying her pet) 
PICARD: Your daughter is lovely. 
MADRED: Yes, I think so. And unusually bright. It's amazing, isn't it,
the way they're able to sneak into your heart. I must admit, I was
completely unprepared for the power she had over me from the moment she
was born. 
PICARD: I'm surprised that you let her come in here. 
MADRED: Why? 
PICARD: To expose a child to this. To someone who is suffering. To see
that it is you that inflict that suffering. 
MADRED: From the time Jil Orra could crawl she's been taught about the
enemies of the Cardassians, and that enemies deserve their fate. 
PICARD: When children learn to devalue others, they can devalue anyone,
including their parents. 
MADRED: What a blind, narrow view you have. What an arrogant man you
are. What do you know of Cardassian history? 
PICARD: I know that once you were a peaceful people with a rich
spiritual life. 
MADRED: And what did peace and spirituality get us? People starved by
the millions. Bodies went unburied. Disease was rampant. Suffering was
unimaginable. 
PICARD: Since the military took over hundreds of thousands more have
died. 
MADRED: But we are feeding the people. We acquired territory during the
wars. We developed new resources. We initiated a rebuilding programme.
We have mandated agricultural programmes. That is what the military has
done for Cardassia. And because of that, my daughter will never worry
about going hungry. 
PICARD: Her belly may be full, but her spirit will be empty. 
(Madred hits him) 
MADRED: Shall we begin again? How many lights are there? 
PICARD: What lights? 
(and he gets punished for that)

[Bridge]

(according to quantum resonance scan 047) 
LAFORGE: It looks like they had some minor hull degradation along their
warp nacelles. The distribution pattern indicates a recent exposure to
a molecular dispersion field. 
JELLICO: Where could they have run into a dispersion field? 
LAFORGE: The McAllister C Five nebula's just across the border. It's
approximately seven light years from Federation space. 
JELLICO: Could there be Cardassian ships inside the McAllister nebula? 
LAFORGE: It's possible, but they wouldn't be able to stay in there for
very long. The particle flux in the nebula would begin to break down a
ship's hull just after seventy two hours. 
JELLICO: Is there a Federation system near the McAllister nebula that
might interest the Cardassians? 
LAFORGE: Minos Korva is only eleven light years from the nebula, and
the Cardassians tried to annex it during the war. 
JELLICO: Data, I want to be at Minos Korva in one hour. 
DATA: Aye, sir. Set course three five zero mark two one five and engage
at warp eight point five.

