LAFORGE PICARD COUNTESS COMPUTER MORIARTY DATA BARCLAY
use risk modify try thoughtful computer time terror travelling

[Engineering]

DATA: Perhaps we should consider the transporter
system. It uses many of the same principles as the holodeck. Both, for
example, are capable of converting energy into matter. 
LAFORGE: Except the transporter reconstitutes energy in a permanent
form. Holodeck matter doesn't have any cohesion unless it's inside the
grid. 
BARCLAY: I wonder, what would happen if we tried to beam a holodeck
object off the grid? 
LAFORGE: Nothing would happen. A holodeck object is just a simulation.
There's nothing there to provide a pattern lock for the transporter. 
DATA: However, if it were possible to lock onto the object, it might
rematerialise with the same molecular cohesion as conventional matter. 
LAFORGE: That's a big leap, Data. I just don't think the transporter is
going to accept simulated matter. 
BARCLAY: Unless, unless we could find a way to compensate for the phase
variance. If we could modify the pattern enhancers we just might do it.

PICARD: Well, Professor Moriarty has agreed not to interfere with
routine ship operations so long as he believes we're acting in good
faith, then I don't think we're in immediate danger. Any progress? 
LAFORGE: We were just talking about using the transporter to beam the
Countess off the holodeck, but I don't quite see how it's going to
work. 
PICARD: Well, keep at it. I have to tell him that we are making some
progress. Mister La Forge. Do you have any idea how Moriarty could have
gained control of the ship? 
LAFORGE: Somehow he managed to override the security lockouts and
rewrite them. The man is brilliant in any century. 
PICARD: I want you to find some way to undo what he has done so that we
can regain control of this ship.

[Corridor]

DATA: Set the pattern enhancers around whatever
object you wish to transport. I will proceed to the transporter room
and begin modifications. 
BARCLAY: Computer, run Sherlock Holmes Programme three A. 
COMPUTER: That programme is already in use.

[221b Baker Street]

(the lovely Stephanie Beacham greets Reg) 
COUNTESS: Are you here to see Mister Holmes, or perhaps Professor
Moriarty? Neither is in just now. 
BARCLAY: Um, er, no. No, no. I'm not here to see anyone. I'm just here
to deliver these. 
COUNTESS: Fine. Just put them anywhere. 
BARCLAY: Actually, I have to put them right here. 
COUNTESS: How curious. Why is that? 
BARCLAY: Well, it has to do with, er, it's nothing you need to worry
about, Countess. 
COUNTESS: Are you suggesting that it's beyond my comprehension? 
BARCLAY: It's really very simple. I need to enhance the molecular
pattern of this chair so that the transporter can get a better lock on
the signal. 
COUNTESS: This has to do with taking James and me into the real world. 
BARCLAY: You, you, you know about that? You understand about the real
world? 
COUNTESS: James has explained it to me. It sounds like a grand
adventure. There's nothing I love more than voyaging in the unknown.
Have you ever been to Africa, Mister? 
BARCLAY: Er, Barclay. Lieutenant Reginald Barclay. No, no, I haven't. 
COUNTESS: I have. When I was seventeen I went on safari with my uncle.
My mother took to her bed in terror I'd be bitten by tsetse fly, but I
had a marvellous time. I got to wear trousers the whole time. It was
hard to go back to a corset, I can tell you. 
BARCLAY: Yes, I'm sure it was. 
COUNTESS: After that, I never stopped travelling. I couldn't bear to be
stuck in one place for very long. So you see I'm so looking forward to
this new experience. My. Travelling the stars. 
BARCLAY: You know about that? You know where we are? Countess, forgive
me, but you just don't sound like a holodeck character. 
MORIARTY: That's because she isn't. 
COUNTESS: James! 
(Moriarty and the Countess kiss passionately) 
MORIARTY: If you loved a woman like this, Lieutenant, would you be
content to let her remain a simulation? 
BARCLAY: You, you gave her consciousness? 
MORIARTY: Yes, just as it was given to me. 
BARCLAY: Well I'm not so sure that's a good idea. 
MORIARTY: Nonsense. It was the only thing to do. 
BARCLAY: Have you tried to take her off the holodeck yet? 
MORIARTY: No. I am unwilling to risk the Countess' safety. I want to
make sure nothing will happen to her. 
COUNTESS: We may be closer to freedom than you think, James. These
devices will enhance our molecular patterns. They'll help take us into
the real world. 
MORIARTY: Oh, please, proceed. 
BARCLAY: Well, we're going to try to transport this chair off the
holodeck first. We didn't want to try it on the Countess until we were
sure it would work. 
COUNTESS: How thoughtful. Isn't he thoughtful, James? 
BARCLAY: Barclay to Commander Data.

