RIKER LAFORGE WORF PICARD COMPUTER MORIARTY DATA BARCLAY
console rewrite brilliant character mind touching want security tell

[Bridge]

RIKER: There they are, Captain. 
PICARD: How long until they begin to coalesce? 
DATA: Within the next five hours, sir. 
(two angry red balls of gas within touching distance of each other on
the viewscreen) 
PICARD: Mister Worf, launch four Class A probes toward the planets. 
WORF: Aye, sir. 
PICARD: Mister Worf? 
WORF: I don't understand. 
(the consoles go dark then flicker on and off) 
WORF: Controls are not responding. 
DATA: Command functions are being rerouted, sir. 
PICARD: For what reason? 
DATA: Unknown, sir. 
PICARD: Computer, route all command functions to the Bridge. 
COMPUTER: Command functions are offline. 
PICARD: Reinitialise them on my authorisation. 
COMPUTER: Authorisation denied. 
PICARD: Explain. 
COMPUTER: Picard command codes are no longer valid. 
PICARD: What's happening? Who's transferred the voice authorisation? 
MORIARTY: I have. I'm afraid I had no choice but to take control of
your vessel. 
(Worf gets his phaser from under the tactical console) 
MORIARTY: If you harm me, sir, I will not be able to relinquish voice
control of your vessel. 
PICARD: Professor, this situation is more serious than you realise. In
less than five hours, those two planets will collide and a new star
will form. Unless we move to a safe distance, this vessel will be
destroyed. 
MORIARTY: I'm just a fictional character. I haven't much to lose. 
PICARD: But surely you wish to live like the rest of us? 
MORIARTY: Not alone. Not without the Countess. 
PICARD: We've discussed that. We are studying means of bringing her
safely off the holodeck. But five hours is not enough time. 
MORIARTY: I'm not so sure. A deadline has a wonderful way of
concentrating the mind. 
PICARD: Mister Data, will you investigate the possibility of complying
with Professor Moriarty's request. 
DATA: Aye, sir. 
PICARD: In the meantime, we have a few things to discuss.

[Engineering]

DATA: Perhaps we should consider the transporter
system. It uses many of the same principles as the holodeck. Both, for
example, are capable of converting energy into matter. 
LAFORGE: Except the transporter reconstitutes energy in a permanent
form. Holodeck matter doesn't have any cohesion unless it's inside the
grid. 
BARCLAY: I wonder, what would happen if we tried to beam a holodeck
object off the grid? 
LAFORGE: Nothing would happen. A holodeck object is just a simulation.
There's nothing there to provide a pattern lock for the transporter. 
DATA: However, if it were possible to lock onto the object, it might
rematerialise with the same molecular cohesion as conventional matter. 
LAFORGE: That's a big leap, Data. I just don't think the transporter is
going to accept simulated matter. 
BARCLAY: Unless, unless we could find a way to compensate for the phase
variance. If we could modify the pattern enhancers we just might do it.

PICARD: Well, Professor Moriarty has agreed not to interfere with
routine ship operations so long as he believes we're acting in good
faith, then I don't think we're in immediate danger. Any progress? 
LAFORGE: We were just talking about using the transporter to beam the
Countess off the holodeck, but I don't quite see how it's going to
work. 
PICARD: Well, keep at it. I have to tell him that we are making some
progress. Mister La Forge. Do you have any idea how Moriarty could have
gained control of the ship? 
LAFORGE: Somehow he managed to override the security lockouts and
rewrite them. The man is brilliant in any century. 
PICARD: I want you to find some way to undo what he has done so that we
can regain control of this ship.

[Corridor]

DATA: Set the pattern enhancers around whatever
object you wish to transport. I will proceed to the transporter room
and begin modifications. 
BARCLAY: Computer, run Sherlock Holmes Programme three A. 
COMPUTER: That programme is already in use.

