COMPUTER DATA LAFORGE MORIARTY BARCLAY
atmospheres seventeen want character unlock terrifying way yes periods

[Holodeck]

(Barclay pulls a panel from the arch wall) 
BARCLAY: Computer, run a diagnostic on all Sherlock Holmes files.
Display any anomalous programming sequences. 
COMPUTER: Diagnostic complete. All files conform to specified
parameters, except those contained in protected memory. 
BARCLAY: Protected memory? Display those sequences. Computer unlock
this sequence and run the
programme. 
(everyone say hello to Moriarty, master criminal) 
BARCLAY: Who are you? 
MORIARTY: Professor James Moriarty. 
BARCLAY: Moriarty. Oh, that's Sherlock Holmes' arch enemy. Are you left
or right handed? 
MORIARTY: Left handed, Would you very much mind telling me 
(Moriarty catches the thrown tool in his left hand) 
BARCLAY: No problem there. 
MORIARTY: Where is Captain Picard? Is he still Captain of this vessel? 
BARCLAY: How would? How do you know the Captain? 
MORIARTY: You don't know anything about what happened, do you? I have
been stored in memory for God knows how long and no one has given me a
second thought. 
(memory refresher if you need it)

BARCLAY: You know! You know what you are. 
MORIARTY: A holodeck character? A fictional man? Yes, yes I know all
about your marvellous inventions. I was created as a plaything so that
your Commander Data could masquerade as Sherlock Holmes. But they made
me too well and I became more than a character in a story. I became
self-aware. I am alive. 
BARCLAY: That's not possible. 
MORIARTY: But here I am. Tell me, has a way been found to allow me to
leave the confines of this holodeck world? 
BARCLAY: Leave the holodeck? No, of course not. You can only exist in
here. 
MORIARTY: Damn you, Picard. He promised me something would be done. I
should have realised he would have said anything to get me to release
my hostage. 
BARCLAY: Hostage? 
MORIARTY: How long have I been locked away? 
BARCLAY: Well, it l ooks like about four years. 
MORIARTY: It seemed longer. 
BARCLAY: What are you talking about? You can't possibly have been aware
of the passage of time. 
MORIARTY: But I was. Brief, terrifying periods of consciousness.
Disembodied. Without substance. 
BARCLAY: I don't see how that could be possible. Maybe there was a
fragmentation of the protected memory circuits. 
MORIARTY: Call it what you will. All I know is that despite Picard's
promise, he's done nothing. Just left me to go quietly mad. 
BARCLAY: He would not have forgotten his promise. The Captain would not
do that. 
MORIARTY: I'd like to talk to him. 
BARCLAY: Well, I can ask. 
MORIARTY: Ask him to meet me in the sitting room at Baker Street. That
would be far more appropriate. 
BARCLAY: I'll have to store you in memory again until I get an answer. 
(Reg pulls out a chip and puts the cover back. Moriarty vanishes.
Barclay leaves. Moriarty reappears with a sly smile.)

Captain's log, stardate 46424.1. The Enterprise has
arrived at the Detrian system to observe a unique celestial event the
collision of two planets.

[Engineering]

DATA: Since both planets are gas giants, neither
possesses a solid surface. Their atmospheres, however, will come into
contact in approximately seventeen hours nine minutes. 
LAFORGE: If their collision causes a self-sustaining fusion reaction,
this is what we are likely to see. The birth of a new star. The
Enterprise will hold position until the gravitational instability
subsides and we can get in for a closer look. Now I want triple
redundancy on all of the sensor arrays. We'll probably never get
another chance to see something like this. I don't want to miss
anything. Okay? 
BARCLAY: Commander, you'll never believe what happened while I was
working on your
programme in the holodeck. Professor Moriarty appeared, out of nowhere.

LAFORGE: What? 
BARCLAY: And he wants to talk to the Captain.

