TROI CRUSHER PICARD RIKER RIKER [OC] MORIARTY DATA BARCLAY
ethical good away took meantime say permanent hurry laws

[Ten Forward]

MORIARTY: My God! We're adrift in the heavens. 
PICARD: No, not adrift. The Enterprise is a starship, capable of
travelling through space. 
MORIARTY: Extraordinary. Are we far from Earth? What is the range of
this ship? What means of locomotion does it use? There's so much for me
to learn. I hardly know where to start. 
PICARD: I can give you books that will help. 
MORIARTY: Good, good. I want to start making plans. Determine what I'm
going to do with my life. 
PICARD: I hope you will plan on remaining on board for a while. There
is still much that we need to understand about what has happened to
you. 
MORIARTY: Does it really matter? The point is, I'm here, and I'm eager
to get on with life. 
PICARD: Professor, I feel it necessary to point out that criminal
behaviour is as unacceptable in the twenty fourth century as it was in
the nineteenth. And much harder to get away with. 
MORIARTY: Don't worry, Captain. My past is nothing but a fiction. The
scribblings of an Englishman dead now for four centuries. I hope to
leave his books on the shelf, as it were. 
PICARD: If that's so, then there are opportunities awaiting you that
are beyond anything you have ever imagined. 
MORIARTY: Your century may welcome me, but 
PICARD: What is the matter? 
MORIARTY: In considering all these vast possibilities, I suddenly feel
very much alone. I am a man out of time, Captain, and that isolates me.
You have been more gracious than I could ever have imagined, I wonder,
may I impose on your generosity once again? There is a woman, the
Countess Regina Bartholomew. She was created as a holodeck character
for one of Commander Data's programs. She was designed to be the love
of my life. Could she also be brought off the holodeck? 
PICARD: Professor, I ask you to believe me when I say that we do not
know how or why you are able to exist off the holodeck. 
MORIARTY: I do. I do believe you. 
PICARD: According to the laws of physics, this is impossible. We would
have no idea how to do it again. 
MORIARTY: As I understand it, I was endowed with consciousness four
years ago when someone said to the computer, create an opponent with a
capacity to out-think Data. or words to that effect. Could we not make
a similar request on behalf of the Countess? 
PICARD: Even if I had reason to believe that would be successful, I
don't think that I could sanction it. Please understand, Professor,
that you are in essence a new life form. One that we didn't intend to
create and that we don't fully understand. Now the moral and ethical
implications of deliberately creating another one like you are
overwhelming. 
MORIARTY: Is it morally and ethically acceptable to deny the woman I
love so that you can put your conscience at ease? Are you saying that
you will simply dictate how I am to live my life? 
PICARD: I assure you, we will do everything possible to make you
comfortable. 
MORIARTY: So long as I accept the terms under which you dole out those
comforts. Captain, I am a powerless man. You hold my future, my
happiness, my very life in your hands. Please, consider my request.

[Observation lounge]

TROI: I understand his frustration. We created him
and we created her to be the woman he loves. Surely we have some
responsibility to them. 
CRUSHER: It's very romantic, but until we know just what it was that
walked off the holodeck, I don't think we should be trying it again. 
BARCLAY: Even if we decided to do it, there's no guarantee that we'd be
able to. 
DATA: There is also no way of knowing if the Professor's ability to
exist off the holodeck is permanent. It may be unwise to consider
creating a second individual while this uncertainty exists. 
PICARD: Agreed. We don't have enough information about this phenomenon
to act in a responsible way. I think we'll hold off on Professor
Moriarty's request for now, but continue with your investigation. In
the meantime, I have to deal with Professor
Moriarty.

[Moriarty's quarters]

PICARD: I feel I must postpone action until we
learn more. 
MORIARTY: Yes. You know all about that. I stayed in the dungeon of your
computer for years waiting for you to learn more. It wasn't until I
took things into my own hands that something got done. 
PICARD: Professor, I wonder why you're in so much of a hurry. Is this
woman involved with you in some illegal venture? 
MORIARTY: Your computer designed her to be a person of impeccable
integrity. She would never commit a crime. 
PICARD: You must love her very much. 
MORIARTY: The programme fashioned her for me to love. But I must admit,
I would have done so anyway. She is remarkable. My life has not been
the same since I met her. I don't simply love her, Captain. I adore
her. 
PICARD: Then her safety must be very important to you. Give us time to
determine what is going on happened here. That way we can minimise the
risks in bringing her to you. You wouldn't want to lose her because we
acted too quickly. 
RIKER [OC]: Riker to Captain Picard. 
PICARD: Picard here. 
RIKER: Could you join us on the Bridge? 
PICARD: On my way.

