PICARD COMPUTER DATA MORIARTY BARCLAY
certain step passage contradicts appears place forgotten throws really

[Corridor]

BARCLAY: Computer, begin Sherlock Holmes programme
three A and place us in the drawing room at Two Twenty One B Baker
Street. 
COMPUTER: Programme complete.

[221b Baker Street]

BARCLAY: Computer, access protected memory and run
Moriarty programme. 
PICARD: Professor. It's good to see you again. 
MORIARTY: If you'd missed my company, I should think you'd have
summoned me before now. 
PICARD: I want to assure you that we've not forgotten you. We spent
some time investigating how you became self-aware. Frankly, it still
remains a mystery. 
MORIARTY: It is also irrelevant. What concerns me is finding a way to
leave the holodeck. 
PICARD: We have been wrestling with that problem too, unfortunately
without any success. But we have turned our findings over to
Starfleet's most experienced theoretical scientists. 
MORIARTY: And what did your finest minds come up with? 
PICARD: Unfortunately, they have not arrived at a solution either. 
MORIARTY: I see. 
PICARD: Professor, I am concerned to learn that you experienced the
passage of time while you were stored in the computer memory. I can
assure you, we had no idea that that would be the case. 
MORIARTY: Enough of this. I no longer believe anything you say. 
PICARD: Professor, I understand your frustration. 
MORIARTY: Do you really? When this is over, you will walk out of this
room to the real world and your own concerns, and leave me here trapped
in a world I know to be nothing but illusion. I cannot bear that. I
must leave. 
PICARD: That is not possible. You cannot exist outside this room. 
MORIARTY: Are you certain of that? 
PICARD: Computer, exit. 
(the door opens onto the corridor) 
PICARD: Although an object appears solid on the holodeck, in the real
world they have no substance. 
(Picard throws out a book. It vanishes) 
MORIARTY: An object has no life. I do. 
PICARD: Professor, you are a computer simulation. 
MORIARTY: I have consciousness. Conscious beings have will. The mind
endows them with powers that are not necessarily understood, even by
you. If my will is strong enough, perhaps I can exist outside this
room. Perhaps I can walk into your world right now. 
PICARD: Professor, I ask you to believe me. If you step out of that
door, you will cease to exist. 
MORIARTY: If I am nothing more than a computer simulation, then very
little will have been lost. But if I am right? Mind over matter. Cogito
ergo sum. 
(Moriarty walks out into the corridor, and does not disappear) 
MORIARTY: I think therefore I am. 
[Corridor]

DATA: Data to Security. Send two officers to
holodeck three. 
PICARD: How is this possible? 
BARCLAY: It isn't. 
DATA: This contradicts everything we know about holodeck physics. 
MORIARTY: Then perhaps you don't know as much as you thought. 
PICARD: Professor, will you come with me? I'd like our Doctor to
examine you. 
(Security arrives) 
MORIARTY: Certainly, sir. Policemen. I'd recognise them in any century.

