RIKER LAFORGE WORF PICARD COMPUTER RIKER [OC] MORIARTY DATA BARCLAY
brilliant request programme mind immediate rematerialise routine hurry probes

[Moriarty's quarters]

PICARD: I feel I must postpone action until we
learn more. 
MORIARTY: Yes. You know all about that. I stayed in the dungeon of your
computer for years waiting for you to learn more. It wasn't until I
took things into my own hands that something got done. 
PICARD: Professor, I wonder why you're in so much of a hurry. Is this
woman involved with you in some illegal venture? 
MORIARTY: Your computer designed her to be a person of impeccable
integrity. She would never commit a crime. 
PICARD: You must love her very much. 
MORIARTY: The programme fashioned her for me to love. But I must admit,
I would have done so anyway. She is remarkable. My life has not been
the same since I met her. I don't simply love her, Captain. I adore
her. 
PICARD: Then her safety must be very important to you. Give us time to
determine what is going on happened here. That way we can minimise the
risks in bringing her to you. You wouldn't want to lose her because we
acted too quickly. 
RIKER [OC]: Riker to Captain Picard. 
PICARD: Picard here. 
RIKER: Could you join us on the Bridge? 
PICARD: On my way.

[Bridge]

RIKER: There they are, Captain. 
PICARD: How long until they begin to coalesce? 
DATA: Within the next five hours, sir. 
(two angry red balls of gas within touching distance of each other on
the viewscreen) 
PICARD: Mister Worf, launch four Class A probes toward the planets. 
WORF: Aye, sir. 
PICARD: Mister Worf? 
WORF: I don't understand. 
(the consoles go dark then flicker on and off) 
WORF: Controls are not responding. 
DATA: Command functions are being rerouted, sir. 
PICARD: For what reason? 
DATA: Unknown, sir. 
PICARD: Computer, route all command functions to the Bridge. 
COMPUTER: Command functions are offline. 
PICARD: Reinitialise them on my authorisation. 
COMPUTER: Authorisation denied. 
PICARD: Explain. 
COMPUTER: Picard command codes are no longer valid. 
PICARD: What's happening? Who's transferred the voice authorisation? 
MORIARTY: I have. I'm afraid I had no choice but to take control of
your vessel. 
(Worf gets his phaser from under the tactical console) 
MORIARTY: If you harm me, sir, I will not be able to relinquish voice
control of your vessel. 
PICARD: Professor, this situation is more serious than you realise. In
less than five hours, those two planets will collide and a new star
will form. Unless we move to a safe distance, this vessel will be
destroyed. 
MORIARTY: I'm just a fictional character. I haven't much to lose. 
PICARD: But surely you wish to live like the rest of us? 
MORIARTY: Not alone. Not without the Countess. 
PICARD: We've discussed that. We are studying means of bringing her
safely off the holodeck. But five hours is not enough time. 
MORIARTY: I'm not so sure. A deadline has a wonderful way of
concentrating the mind. 
PICARD: Mister Data, will you investigate the possibility of complying
with Professor Moriarty's request. 
DATA: Aye, sir. 
PICARD: In the meantime, we have a few things to discuss.

[Engineering]

DATA: Perhaps we should consider the transporter
system. It uses many of the same principles as the holodeck. Both, for
example, are capable of converting energy into matter. 
LAFORGE: Except the transporter reconstitutes energy in a permanent
form. Holodeck matter doesn't have any cohesion unless it's inside the
grid. 
BARCLAY: I wonder, what would happen if we tried to beam a holodeck
object off the grid? 
LAFORGE: Nothing would happen. A holodeck object is just a simulation.
There's nothing there to provide a pattern lock for the transporter. 
DATA: However, if it were possible to lock onto the object, it might
rematerialise with the same molecular cohesion as conventional matter. 
LAFORGE: That's a big leap, Data. I just don't think the transporter is
going to accept simulated matter. 
BARCLAY: Unless, unless we could find a way to compensate for the phase
variance. If we could modify the pattern enhancers we just might do it.

PICARD: Well, Professor Moriarty has agreed not to interfere with
routine ship operations so long as he believes we're acting in good
faith, then I don't think we're in immediate danger. Any progress? 
LAFORGE: We were just talking about using the transporter to beam the
Countess off the holodeck, but I don't quite see how it's going to
work. 
PICARD: Well, keep at it. I have to tell him that we are making some
progress. Mister La Forge. Do you have any idea how Moriarty could have
gained control of the ship? 
LAFORGE: Somehow he managed to override the security lockouts and
rewrite them. The man is brilliant in any century. 
PICARD: I want you to find some way to undo what he has done so that we
can regain control of this ship.

