RIKER AQUIEL WORF LAFORGE
sound longer remains weapon storage know fine tell disagreements

[Corridor]

AQUIEL: How much longer do you think the
investigation will take? 
LAFORGE: Three, maybe four days. It's tough to tell. 
AQUIEL: I know I'm a suspect in the murder, but let me ask you
something. You've watched my logs. You know me better than anyone here.
Do I seem like the kind of person who could murder someone? 
LAFORGE: No, you don't. 
AQUIEL: I don't think I realised how much I needed to hear that. 
LAFORGE: Look, Aquiel, it's been a rough couple of days. I think you
need some sleep. 
AQUIEL: You called me complicated. You're right. I don't make friends
easily. Oumriel. 
(she strokes his face and goes into her quarters) 
LAFORGE: Oumriel. 
[Aquiel's shuttlecraft]

(Worf finds a phaser) 
WORF: Commander. It is set to kill.

[Guest quarters]

RIKER: We found this type two phaser in your
shuttlecraft. It was taken from the weapons locker on the station. 
AQUIEL: I told you I don't remember what happened. Maybe I did make to
the weapons locker. 
RIKER: It was set to level ten. Standard procedure requires that all
phasers are set on level one when they're in storage. 
WORF: That means that someone deliberately changed the setting. And
then there is the matter of your conflict with Lieutenant Rocha. 
AQUIEL: Rocha and I had our disagreements but that does not mean I
would kill him. 
RIKER: Have you been able to remember anything that happened after he
attacked you? 
AQUIEL: No. Nothing. I suppose maybe in self-defence I 
RIKER: Doctor Crusher tells me that in order to inflict the kind of
molecular damage found in Rocha's remains, it would take a sustained
phaser discharge of at least thirty to forty seconds. That doesn't
sound like self-defence to me. 
LAFORGE: Now wait a minute. We haven't even established this phaser is
the murder weapon yet. And even at level ten I don't see how it could
have done the damage the medical evidence says it did. A phase
disruptor like a Klingon weapon, maybe. 
RIKER: Look, we're not here to make accusations. We're trying to find
out what happened. Commander Morag is due here in two hours. Let's see
what he has to say. 
LAFORGE: Fine. In the meantime I'd like to go back to the station and
see if I can access Rocha's personal logs again. 
RIKER: Good idea.

