PICARD RIKER BARMAN AQUIEL LAFORGE
sister commanders taste angry knew reported said clues tell

[Ten Forward]

BARMAN: Here you are, sir. 
(Geordi takes two glasses to a table) 
AQUIEL: Thank you. 
LAFORGE: You're welcome. 
AQUIEL: Mmmm. Have you ever tried Muskan seed punch? 
LAFORGE: Yeah. It nearly made me sick. 
AQUIEL: You have to be raised on it. It's very nutritious. The taste
grows on you. 
LAFORGE: Batar al nalia. 
AQUIEL: You speak Hahliian. 
LAFORGE: We travelled around quite a bit when I was growing up. I
picked up a couple of languages along the way. 
AQUIEL: We never travelled. My family lived in the same house for five
generations. 
LAFORGE: The one on the hill. 
AQUIEL: How do you know about that? 
LAFORGE: Well, to be honest, when we thought you were dead I needed to
review your logs and personal correspondence for any possible clues
about what happened. 
AQUIEL: All of it? 
LAFORGE: Most of it, yeah. You need to understand that we thought you'd
been murdered. We needed information. 
AQUIEL: I'm sorry. It's just that I tell my sister things I wouldn't
tell anyone else. I guess I was feeling a little exposed. 
LAFORGE: I'd feel the same way. 
AQUIEL: Especially if I had seen you in that wig. 
LAFORGE: It really wasn't you. 
AQUIEL: I'm curious. Now that you've met me, am I what you expected? 
LAFORGE: Actually, I'm not sure. The woman I saw in those logs is very
complicated. I think there's more to you than meets the eye,
Lieutenant. 
AQUIEL: In what way? 
LAFORGE: Well, your relationship with Lieutenant Rocha, for example. He
was only there for five days and yet there was evidence of plenty of
friction. You seemed to delight in doing things that you knew would
upset him. Why take on extra comm. traffic when you knew it was going
to make him angry? 
AQUIEL: Is that a personal question or part of a murder investigation? 
LAFORGE: I don't know. Maybe both. 
AQUIEL: Keith Rocha was obnoxious from the minute he reported to duty.
He treated me as though I was beneath contempt. I felt like I had to
battle him to hold my own. But I didn't want to see him dead. 
LAFORGE: Why do you think he attacked you? 
AQUIEL: I don't know.

[Ready room]

RIKER: Rocha's file is spotless. Two decorations
for valour, three outstanding evaluations from his previous commanders.
Doesn't sound like the same man that Lieutenant Uhnari described. 
PICARD: What did you found out about Uhnari? 
RIKER: I checked into her record, too. Her last posting was on Deriben
Five. I spoke to her commanding officer there. He said she was
argumentative, quick to take offence. He also told me he transferred
her to that relay station because she was hampering their efforts. To
be honest, I'm having trouble believing her story, sir. 
PICARD: Why? 
RIKER: I sent Worf to check the weapons locker on the relay station.
There's a phaser missing. 
PICARD: You think that she lied? 
RIKER: Lied, conveniently forgot, I'm not sure. I think it's something
we have to consider. 
PICARD: As of now, we don't have sufficient evidence one way or the
other. I want you to examine her shuttle. You might find something
there which will shed some light on her story. 
RIKER: Aye, sir.

