PICARD [OC] RIKER LAFORGE WORF PICARD TORAK CRUSHER AQUIEL
woman qu buffer mind able hours got vat told

[Aquiel's quarters]

(Geordi is looking at Aquiel's novel) 
LAFORGE: How could she read this stuff? 
RIKER: How's it going? 
LAFORGE: I've managed to access all of Lieutenant Uhnari's logs. I'm
still looking for Lieutenant Rocha's. Whatever happened to the
encrypted messages had a cascade effect on the whole storage system. I
can't find his files anywhere. I'm running a level three diagnostic
now. 
RIKER: Maybe Rocha didn't make the official logs. Uhnari could have
been responsible for them. 
LAFORGE: I don't think so. Aquiel was the junior officer here. 
RIKER: Aquiel? 
LAFORGE: Lieutenant Uhnari. I've been up all night watching her
personal logs. I guess I'm starting to feel like I know her. 
RIKER: What was she like? 
LAFORGE: Well she was Hahliian. She had one sister named Shiana, she
drank muskan seed punch. She had a quirky sense of humour. She liked to
sing. She had questionable taste in literature. 
PICARD [OC]: Enterprise to Commander Riker. 
RIKER: Riker here. 
PICARD: The Klingon ship Qu'Vat has arrived with Governor Torak. Please
report to the Observation lounge. 
RIKER: We're on our way.

[Observation lounge]

WORF: Governor Torak, sir. 
PICARD: Governor. Welcome aboard. 
TORAK: Do not bore me with your human pleasantries. I told you we did
not kill the woman. Now I will prove it to you. ghoS! 
(a Klingon escorts a woman into the room) 
TORAK: This is Lieutenant Aquiel Uhnari. 
(soon after) 
AQUIEL: We were running a level two diagnostic of the message buffer,
Nothing special. Rocha had been on edge all morning, but he'd been
irritable ever since he got there, so I didn't think anything of it. We
were halfway through the procedure when suddenly he attacked me. He
grabbed me, threw me against a bulkhead. I yelled at him to stop but he
wouldn't listen. He took me by the throat. I broke free and tried to
get to the weapons locker. I'm not sure what happened next but somehow
I got aboard the shuttle and left. 
TORAK: We found her on our side of the border heading toward Sector two
five two zero. She is lucky my patrol ship did not destroy her vessel
on sight. 
PICARD: Lieutenant, why didn't you contact Starfleet? Let them know
what happened on board the station? 
AQUIEL: I don't know, sir. Maybe I passed out. I'm not even sure how
long I was in the shuttle before the Klingons picked me up. 
LAFORGE: Forty six hours. You've been gone forty six hours. 
CRUSHER: We presumed you were dead. Your blood stains were found at the
murder scene. 
AQUIEL: I must have cut my head when he pushed me against the bulkhead.

WORF: Then the remains we found must be those of Lieutenant Rocha. 
CRUSHER: I can't confirm that. Until we're able to separate the
cellular residue from the
deck plate, I won't be able to do a clear DNA scan. 
RIKER: You said you were trying to get to the weapons locker. Is there
a possibility
that you did? 
AQUIEL: No, I didn't. 
RIKER: You're sure? 
AQUIEL: I don't remember exactly what happened to me after I was
attacked. I'm sorry. It's as if all my memories were drained out of me.

LAFORGE: Your logs said that a Commander Morag had been harassing you.
Did you let him or any other Klingon aboard the station? 
AQUIEL: Absolutely not. 
WORF: If that is true, then Morag or some other Klingon must have
boarded the station after she left. We found traces of Klingon DNA on
the station. 
TORAK: You still try to blame us. 
WORF: Have the courage to admit your mistakes. Or are you a lo'Be Vos? 
TORAK: At least I do not wear the uniform of the P'tak! 
PICARD: Governor, we are merely exploring all the possibilities.
Lieutenant Uhnari's logs reported that Commander Morag had been
harassing the station. 
TORAK: He was doing his job. 
PICARD: If he was only doing his job, then I'm sure you won't mind if
we spoke with him. 
TORAK: Very well. In the interests of diplomacy, I will allow you to
speak to Morag. But my patience has limits. 
(Torak and his aide storm out) 
LAFORGE: Lieutenant, I know a friend of yours who's very eager to see
you. 
AQUIEL: Who? 
LAFORGE: Come with me.

