RIKER CRUSHER LAFORGE WORF

[Relay Station ops]

(an away team arrives to investigate) 
CRUSHER: What's that noise? 
LAFORGE: They must've left an audio monitoring system on. We're hearing
a few thousand subspace messages. I'll try and shut it off. Got it. 
(peace descends, revealing a banging sound) 
RIKER: Geordi, what's that? 
LAFORGE: I don't know. Sounds like a loose panel or something. I think
it's coming from this service duct over here. 
(he pulls a piece of equipment away from the wall to reveal) 
RIKER: Here's your loose panel. 
(the sound is of a wagging tail hitting the metal. woof!) 
LAFORGE: Hey, pooch. hey, pooch, come on out of there. Come on. Come
on. Hey, pooch, what are you doing in there?
WORF: Commander, the shuttlecraft is gone. There is no one on board. 
CRUSHER: Commander? 
RIKER: What is it? 
CRUSHER: Cellular residue. I believe these are the remains of one of
our lieutenants. 
(Worf is cutting the deck plate out with his phaser) 
CRUSHER: All of the blood traces I found match those of Lieutenant
Aquiel Uhnari. I'll assume those are her remains but I'll need to take
the
deck plate back to Sickbay just to be sure. 
RIKER: It would take a powerful weapon to do that. 
CRUSHER: I'll have a better idea once I've analysed the deck plate. 
RIKER: If that is Uhnari, where's Rocha? 
CRUSHER: The station's shuttle's gone. Maybe he took it. 
RIKER: Before Uhnari died or after? 
WORF: We're ready, Commander. 
RIKER: Did you have any luck downloading the station logs? 
LAFORGE: Not yet. I can't get past these security lock-outs, and I
think I know why. All encrypted subspace messages are sent through this
channel. Take a look at this signal notation. 
RIKER: It's out of sequence. 
LAFORGE: Looks like somebody tried to by pass the access protocols and
break into the coded messages. It caused the security lockouts to
freeze right up. 
RIKER: Are there any messages missing? 
LAFORGE: I won't know until I get into the files. 
RIKER: Looks like you've made a friend. 
LAFORGE: Yeah. 
RIKER: We're going to back to the ship. Let me know as soon as you have
something. 
LAFORGE: I'm going to try accessing the logs from another console. 
(he and the dog go into an adjoining room where a monitor is displaying
static)

