PICARD COMPUTER LAFORGE AQUIEL

[Aquiel's quarters]

(the monitor screen is still stubbornly displaying
static) 
LAFORGE: All right, let's try this again. Come on, this should be
working. The phase inducters are aligned. Come on, Lieutenant, I know
you're in here somewhere. Computer me run a subsystem diagnostic, with
a frequency range of ten to one hundred megahertz. 
COMPUTER: Diagnostic cycle will be complete in twenty seconds. 
LAFORGE: Iced coffee? 
(the replicator produces his drink and the dog barks) 
LAFORGE: What is it, girl? 
(he's finally got an image - of a young dark-skinned alien woman) 
AQUIEL [on monitor]: Hello, Shiana. By the time you get this the
Batarael will be over. This is the first time I haven't been there.
I've been wondering, who's singing the Horath in my place. (sings)
Jomiael hahnalia ma marou nitalia. Rumael tavariel fatra di va Jomiael.
(next letter) I had that dream again. The one where Mother is
screaming. I climb the hill to our house but I can't get to her.
Shiana, this time I ran away. I was so scared I ran back down the hill.
I think I know why I've been having the dreams about danger. It's
because of what's been happening with that Klingon. He's getting more
aggressive all the time. Not just the usual threat. 
(Geordi rewinds the message) 
AQUIEL [on monitor]: It's because of what's been happening with that
Klingon. He's getting more aggressive all the time. Not just the usual
threat. Morag actually locked his disruptors to the station this time.
I don't think there'll be any trouble. It just brings up those feelings
of panic, of wanting to run, wanting to get away from danger. Shiana, I
couldn't say this to anyone but you, but the panic? It's the same thing
I used to feel whenever Father got angry, when I knew he was going to
punish me. Only now, I'm out here in space, and there's no place to
run.

[Ready room]

LAFORGE: There are three references to a Commander
Morag, a Klingon officer who patrols this section of the border.
Apparently he would pass the station every few days and harass them. 
PICARD: Perhaps this Morag was the one who was interested in obtaining
the encrypted messages. 
LAFORGE: Could be. She didn't say. But I do have several more days of
logs left to watch. I'm hoping to learn more. 
PICARD: Very well. In the meantime, I'll speak with the Klingon
Governor about Commander Morag.

