PICARD COMPUTER LAFORGE TORAK AQUIEL

[Bridge]

TORAK [on viewscreen]: Are you saying we attacked
your outpost? 
PICARD: I'm merely saying that I'm following up on evidence that my
officers discovered on board. 
TORAK [on viewscreen]: Evidence. So you are making an accusation. The
Klingon Empire will not stand for these kinds of lies. 
PICARD: Governor Torak, I apologise. I can see that you honestly didn't
know what happened aboard the station. I will just have to take this
matter up with Gowron. I'm really sorry that we bothered you. 
TORAK [on viewscreen]: Gowron won't bother with such a minor incident. 
PICARD: Well, ordinarily he wouldn't, but of course I was his Arbiter
of Succession. I'm sure that he will be happy to come here and
investigate this matter. You needn't worry about it any longer. 
TORAK [on viewscreen]: Gowron will come here? 
PICARD: Oh, yes. So once again, thank you for your help. Oh, I will be
sure to mention your name to Gowron when I speak to him. 
TORAK [on viewscreen]: I will investigate this further, Picard. You
need not bother Gowron with this matter. 
PICARD: That's very kind. Qapla'! 
TORAK [on viewscreen]: Qapla'! 
[La Forge's quarters]

LAFORGE: Computer access the personal logs of
Aquiel Uhnari. 
COMPUTER: Logs accessed. 
LAFORGE: Begin playback. 
AQUIEL [on monitor]: Shiana, you always said I'd look great with a wig,
so here it is. What do you think? 
LAFORGE: Definitely not you. 
AQUIEL [on monitor]: (taking the huge construction off) Okay, maybe I'm
getting a little crazy. You would too, if you were stuck on a relay
station in the middle of nowhere with no one for company except an
egomaniac like Keith Rocha. I took a big risk today. I countermanded an
order he gave. I agreed to handle the comm. traffic for Relay Station
one nine four while they shut down for maintenance. Rocha said we
couldn't handle the additional signal load, but I think he's wrong.
When he finds out he'll be furious. It's days like this I wish I was
home. You know what I miss most? Muskan seed punch. Real Muskan seed
punch. You can get it from the replicator, but it's not the same. I'd
give anything for some of the punch Mother used to make with chunks of
the seeds still in it. (noises off) Keith, is that you? Keith?
(recording ends)

