RIKER AQUIEL WORF PICARD COMPUTER CRUSHER LAFORGE

[Aquiel's quarters]

AQUIEL: I haven't been this close to someone in a
long time. I don't want to let go of it. 
LAFORGE: Neither do I, but I've got six hundred logs to go through. 
AQUIEL: All right, but first there's something I want to share with
you. A way that we can become more intimate. My people are partially
telepathic. We use something called the Canar to help focus our
thoughts. We also use the Canar for a stronger emotional link during
love. 
(Aquiel picks up a crystal from her display stand) 
LAFORGE: I was wondering what that was for. Do both of us have to be
telepathic for it to work? 
AQUIEL: Let's find out. 
(they kneel either side of the bed, with the Canar in the middle.
Aquiel reaches for Geordi's visor. He takes her hands and guides them) 
LAFORGE: Like this. 
(she puts their hands on the Canar) 
AQUIEL: Think of me.

[Sickbay]

CRUSHER: It's an exact reproduction of my hand,
right down to the DNA structure. 
PICARD: Doctor, you said that this was formed from the organic matter
found in the
deck plates. 
CRUSHER: When I infused the matter with a resonance frequency burst, it
activated its DNA. Then it touched my hand and it began to mimic my
cellular structure. 
PICARD: Doctor, what exactly is this? 
CRUSHER: This is going to sound very farfetched, but have you ever
heard of a coalescent organism? 
PICARD: No. 
CRUSHER: They're rare microscopic lifeforms which need to absorb other
organisms in order to survive. Now, that in itself isn't so unusual,
but coalescents become the organisms they've absorbed, right down to
the cellular level. 
WORF: Do you think this is what happened with your hand? 
CRUSHER: There've been reports that these organisms can exist on a
larger scale. Certainly, what happened to my hand seems to support that
theory. 
RIKER: So you think that Rocha was killed by one of these organisms? 
CRUSHER: It's possible that something happened to him before he
reported for duty on the relay station. 
WORF: I do not understand. 
CRUSHER: I've checked the records. Before he was posted to the relay
station, Rocha served on an outpost in the Triona System. That is a
remote sector. Maybe he was absorbed by a coalescent during that
mission. 
RIKER: So what boarded the station could have been an organism that
looked and acted like Lieutenant Rocha? 
WORF: How often do they have to change bodies? 
CRUSHER: The microscopic organisms have a cycle of no more than five to
ten seconds. We can only assume a larger, more complex coalescent would
have a cycle of days, even weeks. 
PICARD: Doctor, if what you're saying is true, then Rocha attacked
Lieutenant Uhnari to find a new body. 
CRUSHER: Right. 
RIKER: That means Uhnari is a coalescent. 
WORF: There was one other person on the station. Morag. It is possible
he was the one who was absorbed. 
PICARD: Computer, locate Commander Morag and Lieutenant Uhnari. 
COMPUTER: Commander Morag is in his quarters. Lieutenant Uhnari is not
aboard the Enterprise. 
WORF: Where did she go? 
COMPUTER: Lieutenant Uhnari transported to Relay Station forty seven at
eighteen thirty hours. 
RIKER: You get Morag. I'm going to the station. 
WORF: Aye, sir.

[Aquiel's quarters]

(the Canar is glowing, changing colour, and La
Forge is grinning) 
AQUIEL: Geordi? 
LAFORGE: I can see you. Oh. And I can feel you. 
