RIKER COMPUTER AQUIEL WORF LAFORGE
set weapon standard judgement judgements 047 making mister 46459

[Guest quarters]

RIKER: We found this type two phaser in your
shuttlecraft. It was taken from the weapons locker on the station. 
AQUIEL: I told you I don't remember what happened. Maybe I did make to
the weapons locker. 
RIKER: It was set to level ten. Standard procedure requires that all
phasers are set on level one when they're in storage. 
WORF: That means that someone deliberately changed the setting. And
then there is the matter of your conflict with Lieutenant Rocha. 
AQUIEL: Rocha and I had our disagreements but that does not mean I
would kill him. 
RIKER: Have you been able to remember anything that happened after he
attacked you? 
AQUIEL: No. Nothing. I suppose maybe in self-defence I 
RIKER: Doctor Crusher tells me that in order to inflict the kind of
molecular damage found in Rocha's remains, it would take a sustained
phaser discharge of at least thirty to forty seconds. That doesn't
sound like self-defence to me. 
LAFORGE: Now wait a minute. We haven't even established this phaser is
the murder weapon yet. And even at level ten I don't see how it could
have done the damage the medical evidence says it did. A phase
disruptor like a Klingon weapon, maybe. 
RIKER: Look, we're not here to make accusations. We're trying to find
out what happened. Commander Morag is due here in two hours. Let's see
what he has to say. 
LAFORGE: Fine. In the meantime I'd like to go back to the station and
see if I can access Rocha's personal logs again. 
RIKER: Good idea.

[Corridor]

RIKER: Geordi, wait a second. Thank you, Mister
Worf. 
WORF: Aye, sir. 
RIKER: This is off the record. I'm saying this as a friend, not your
superior officer. I think it would be best if you weren't so personally
involved with Aquiel right now. There's a lot about her we don't know. 
LAFORGE: And there's a lot about her that I do know, and if she's
innocent I want to help her prove it. 
RIKER: I think you've let your personal feelings cloud your judgement. 
LAFORGE: I'm not the one making judgements.

[Relay Station ops]

LAFORGE: Got it. Computer, display the personal
records of Lieutenant Rocha from stardates 46455 to 46460. 
(the logs for station 047 scroll through the monitor) 
LAFORGE: Computer, what happened to the log entries for stardate 46459?

COMPUTER: The logs have been deleted. 
LAFORGE: Who deleted them? 
COMPUTER: Unknown. 
Captain's log, supplemental. The Qu'Vat has arrived
with Commander Morag. We are preparing to question him regarding his
involvement in the murder of Lieutenant Rocha.

