TROI WORF TORETH PICARD N'VEK RIKER ALIEN [on viewscreen] PILOT [OC] MCKNIGHT DATA PILOT
corvallen worf held assume believe authority middle trust hope

[Warbird ward room]

TORETH: We'd been told that the Klingon outpost was
undefended. So when their warships decloaked, they took us completely
by surprise. 
(Troi enters) 
TORETH: The Klingons managed to destroyed half my squadron before we
even opened fire. But when we did, ha! they were no match for us. I
destroyed their flagship myself. I received the Sotaric Citation for my
actions that day. The Intelligence Officer in charge of that mission
was executed. Major. Welcome to our table. 
TROI: Commander. 
TORETH: I suggest you try the viinerine. It's quite good. 
(Troi takes a bowl and spoons some stuff out onto her plate) 
TORETH: I realise that it's nothing compared to what you're accustomed
to on Romulus, but you could at least try the viinerine. 
TROI: I've smelled better viinerine on prison ships. 
TORETH: No doubt. Tell me, Major, where did you train? The Intelligence
Academy or the Imperial War College? 
TROI: The Academy. 
TORETH: Oh? So you must know Commander Konsab. 
TROI: I know of him. 
TORETH: I assume you studied Military History with him? 
TROI: Yes. 
TORETH: Tell me, Major, what do you think about his theories on the
differences between the military and the Tal Shiar? 
TROI: Which aspects are you referring to? 
TORETH: Come now, Major. Surely you attended his classes regularly? It
was Konsab's main theme. 
TROI: Do you have a point to make, Commander? If so, it has escaped me.

TORETH: Commander Konsab believes that in order to function, military
officers have to trust each other. The Tal Shiar, on the other hand,
trust no one. They expect deception, so they always find it. 
TROI: Your opinion of the Tal Shiar quite clear, Commander. 
TORETH: I hope so. 
TROI: We ensure the loyalty of the people. Do you believe the Empire
would be better off without our protection? 
TORETH: Protection? From what? How was the Empire threatened by the
words of an old man, a devoted citizen who merely tried to speak his
mind? How did the Tal Shiar protect the Empire by dragging him, my
father, out of his home in the middle of the night? 
TROI: Clearly, your father was a traitor. 
TORETH: No. He was just an idealistic old man. I never saw him again. 
TROI: I don't need your devotion, Commander. Just your obedience. 
TORETH: And that's all you have. 
PILOT [OC]: Commander, sensors are picking up an unidentified ship on
an intercept course.

[Warbird bridge]

TORETH: What is the configuration? 
PILOT: It appears to be a freighter, Commander. 
TROI: Hail them. 
TORETH: Visual. 
ALIEN [on viewscreen]: Commander. We are glad to see you. We are
prepared to transfer your cargo as agreed. 
TORETH: With whom do you have this agreement? 
ALIEN [on viewscreen]: Our arrangements were made with Major Rakal. You
may rest assured your cargo will be taken safely to its destination. We
will transmit coordinates for you to beam it aboard. 
TROI: (softly) He's lying. They have no intention of keeping their
word. 
N'VEK: Are you certain? 
TROI: Yes. 
(N'Vek fires at the freighter - KaBOOM) 
TORETH: Why did you destroy that vessel? 
N'VEK: I beg forgiveness, Commander, but Major Rakal ordered me to
fire. 
PILOT: The Corvallen freighter has been completely destroyed,
Commander. There are no survivors. 
TORETH: I demand an explanation. 
TROI: How many people were on that ship? 
PILOT: Approximately eighteen people, sir. 
TORETH: I don't care if there were eighteen or eight hundred. On this
ship, I give the command to fire, Major. You have no right. 
TROI: (pointing to her insignia) This gives me the right. 
TORETH: Even you, eventually, will have to answer to someone. You will
be held accountable. 
TROI: I have been given broad discretionary powers. Subcommander N'Vek
acted under my authority, the authority of the Tal Shiar. I assure you
this action will not be questioned. 
TORETH: I will nonetheless make an entry in my log that I am not
responsible for those eighteen lives and that I deplore their loss. 
TROI: Do what you feel is necessary. In the meantime, we must protect
ourselves. Engage the cloaking device. 
(the ship cloaks) 
TORETH: And what are my orders now, Major? 
TROI: Hold position and wait.

[Bridge]

DATA: There is no sign of the freighter, sir. We
are the only ship in the area. 
PICARD: Ensign, verify our position. 
MCKNIGHT: We're holding at the coordinates specified by Ensign DeSeve,
sir. 
RIKER: Anything on long range sensors? 
DATA: Sensors indicate no other ships within three light years. 
RIKER: Could this have been a hoax? 
PICARD: It's one possibility. Mister Worf, bring Ensign DeSeve to my
Ready room. 
WORF: Aye, sir.

