DESEVE TROI TORETH PICARD RIKER NVEK PILOT

[DeSeve's quarters]

DESEVE: Commander. 
PICARD: At ease. It's Captain, actually. 
DESEVE: Of course. I'm sorry, sir. 
PICARD: You said it was important that I see you. 
DESEVE: Yes, Captain. I have a message from Ambassador Spock. He said
it involves further cowboy diplomacy. He said you would understand.
There's a Corvallen freighter arriving in the Kaleb sector in the next
twelve hours. Spock wants you to rendezvous with that ship, bring its
cargo back to Federation space. 
PICARD: What kind of cargo? 
DESEVE: He said it was important to the future of the Romulans and the
Federation. 
PICARD: You have returned in order to give me this message? 
DESEVE: Partly. 
PICARD: In order to know whether Ambassador Spock's message is being
delivered accurately, I need to understand something about the
messenger. 
DESEVE: I was ready to come back. Romulus had lost its appeal. 
PICARD: Yet at one time you found something very appealing about it. 
DESEVE: The Romulans are very moral, Captain. They have an absolute
certainty about what is right and what is wrong, who is a friend and
who is an enemy, a strict moral compass which provides them with a
clarity of purpose. At one time I found their sense of purpose, their
passion and commitment, to be very compelling. 
PICARD: But not any more? 
DESEVE: As I've grown older, I realise that clarity of purpose is a
more ambiguous matter than I had thought in my youth. 
PICARD: Commander Riker, set course for the Kaleb sector, warp factor
eight. 
RIKER [OC]: Aye-aye, sir.

[Warbird cargo bay]

(N'Vek is checking the cargo when Troi enters.
There is a guard present)
TROI: You may wait outside. Make certain we're not disturbed. 
(the guard leaves) 
TROI: They're terrified of me. 
N'VEK: The purpose of the Tal Shiar is to ensure loyalty. To defy them
is to invite imprisonment or death. 
TROI: I think it's time you told me what this is all about. 
N'VEK: That is why I called you here. These are the cargo containers we
brought on board earlier. 
TROI: What's in it? 
(N'Vek opens it to reveal a Romulan man) 
TROI: He's alive. In stasis. Who is it? 
N'VEK: Vice Proconsul M'ret of the Imperial Senate and his two top
aides. 
TROI: M'ret? He's one of the highest ranking members of the Romulan
government. 
N'VEK: His defection will be a profound blow to Romulus. 
TROI: Why is he doing this? 
N'VEK: M'ret had questioned the repressive activities of the government
and was in danger of being imprisoned. He is willing to take this risk
in order to protest Romulan policy and support the dissident movement. 
TROI: You're part of Ambassador Spock's underground movement. 
N'VEK: Yes. If we are able to deliver M'ret safely, Spock is hopeful
that we can establish an escape route for the thousands of dissidents
who live in fear of their lives. Now you realise why we are willing to
go to such extraordinary lengths, even kidnapping you, to make sure we
succeed. 
TROI: You've given me the identity of a Tal Shiar officer. Is there a
real Major Rakal? 
N'VEK: There was. She was killed so that you could take her place. Only
a member of the Tal Shiar would have the authority to alter a ship's
mission. 
TROI: Why me? You could have found a Romulan to play this role. 
N'VEK: Yes, for the first part of the plan. But if anything goes wrong
we will need a Starfleet officer. 
TROI: Why? 
N'VEK: There's no need to go into that unless it becomes necessary. For
your own sake, Counsellor, the less you know about the specifics of
this plan, the better. 
TROI: What is your plan? 
N'VEK: When we reach the Kaleb sector, we will rendezvous with a
Corvallen freighter. You will take these containers into their ship and
accompany them back to Starfleet Headquarters. 
TROI: The Corvallens are mercenaries. Do they know what's in these
containers? 
N'VEK: No. They were hired simply to take you to Federation space. 
TROI: Very well. 
N'VEK: We are due in the ward room shortly. The senior officers always
dine together. 
TROI: I'll go to my quarters. I think it would be best if I stayed out
of the way of the Commander. 
N'VEK: No, you will be expected to attend. I'll go ahead. Follow me
after a few moments. Commander Toreth must not feel that anything is
unusual.

[Warbird ward room]

TORETH: We'd been told that the Klingon outpost was
undefended. So when their warships decloaked, they took us completely
by surprise. 
(Troi enters) 
TORETH: The Klingons managed to destroyed half my squadron before we
even opened fire. But when we did, ha! they were no match for us. I
destroyed their flagship myself. I received the Sotaric Citation for my
actions that day. The Intelligence Officer in charge of that mission
was executed. Major. Welcome to our table. 
TROI: Commander. 
TORETH: I suggest you try the viinerine. It's quite good. 
(Troi takes a bowl and spoons some stuff out onto her plate) 
TORETH: I realise that it's nothing compared to what you're accustomed
to on Romulus, but you could at least try the viinerine. 
TROI: I've smelled better viinerine on prison ships. 
TORETH: No doubt. Tell me, Major, where did you train? The Intelligence
Academy or the Imperial War College? 
TROI: The Academy. 
TORETH: Oh? So you must know Commander Konsab. 
TROI: I know of him. 
TORETH: I assume you studied Military History with him? 
TROI: Yes. 
TORETH: Tell me, Major, what do you think about his theories on the
differences between the military and the Tal Shiar? 
TROI: Which aspects are you referring to? 
TORETH: Come now, Major. Surely you attended his classes regularly? It
was Konsab's main theme. 
TROI: Do you have a point to make, Commander? If so, it has escaped me.

TORETH: Commander Konsab believes that in order to function, military
officers have to trust each other. The Tal Shiar, on the other hand,
trust no one. They expect deception, so they always find it. 
TROI: Your opinion of the Tal Shiar quite clear, Commander. 
TORETH: I hope so. 
TROI: We ensure the loyalty of the people. Do you believe the Empire
would be better off without our protection? 
TORETH: Protection? From what? How was the Empire threatened by the
words of an old man, a devoted citizen who merely tried to speak his
mind? How did the Tal Shiar protect the Empire by dragging him, my
father, out of his home in the middle of the night? 
TROI: Clearly, your father was a traitor. 
TORETH: No. He was just an idealistic old man. I never saw him again. 
TROI: I don't need your devotion, Commander. Just your obedience. 
TORETH: And that's all you have. 
PILOT [OC]: Commander, sensors are picking up an unidentified ship on
an intercept course.

