TROI WORF TORETH PICARD N'VEK RIKER TROI [on viewscreen] PILOT
control decloaks firing brute number resort forward agree charged

[Warbird bridge]

PILOT: They are moving away, Commander. 
TORETH: Prepare attack sequence. 
N'VEK: All sections report ready for battle, Commander. 
PILOT: Disruptors fully charged. 
TORETH: Disengage cloak on my command. Prepare to fire. 
TROI: Disregard that order. 
TORETH: What? 
TROI: I do not authorise this attack. You will cease battle operations
immediately. 
TORETH: I do not need your authorisation to attack, Major. This is my
ship. 
TROI: How typical of the military to resort to brute force when
discretion is required. 
TORETH: The Enterprise has demonstrated that they can track us. They
must be destroyed. 
TROI: Yes, they can track us. So if we attack them, they will return
fire. And since we have no shields when we're cloaked, they will
destroy us. 
TORETH: Are you questioning my ability to command? 
TROI: You are not fit to command. Step down. Step down or I will have
you removed. 
TORETH: Do you think anyone here will listen to you? 
TROI: If any one of you defies the Tal Shiar, you will not bear the
punishment alone. Your families, all of them, will be there beside you.
I am now Commander of this ship. You will take orders from me and no
one else. Remove Commander Toreth from her station. If she resists,
shoot her. 
N'VEK: Commander, please, step down. 
TROI: Remove her weapon. 
(N'Vek does so) 
TROI: Now, Commander. Watch and learn. In order to defeat your enemy,
you must first understand them. The Federation wishes to avoid war at
all cost. So I shall offer them a diplomatic solution, get them to
lower their shields and then destroy them.

[Bridge]

(the warbird decloaks) 
WORF: Captain, we are being hailed. 
PICARD: On screen. 
TROI [on viewscreen]: I am Major Rakal of the Tal Shiar. 
PICARD: I am Jean-Luc Picard of the Enterprise. 
TROI [on viewscreen]: How can we be of help? 
PICARD: A Corvallen freighter has been destroyed not far from here. We
have detected the residual effects of disruptor fire. Can you shed any
light on this? 
TROI [on viewscreen]: A regrettable incident, Captain. The freighter
was fired upon by the former Commander of this vessel. I have now taken
control, and I assure you there will be no more attacks. 
PICARD: Still, there was a considerable loss of life. 
TROI [on viewscreen]: Captain, we do not want to exaggerate this
incident. You and I can discuss it calmly. We can diffuse it before it
becomes inflated. 
PICARD: I agree. 
TROI [on viewscreen]: I will come onto your ship. Please, lower your
shields and prepare to beam me aboard. 
PICARD: Very well. Mister Worf, lock onto Major Rakal. Transport on my
command. 
WORF: Aye, sir. 
TROI [on viewscreen]: Thank you. 
(transmission ends) 
RIKER: What's she doing on that ship? 
PICARD: I don't know, Number One, but she needs our help to get back.
Mister Worf, keep your lock on her no matter what happens. 
WORF: Yes, sir. 
PICARD: Lower shields. 
[Warbird bridge]

N'VEK: Their shields are dropping. 
TROI: Activate forward disruptor array. Fire when ready. 
N'VEK: Yes, Major. Firing. 
