DESEVE RIKER PICARD TROI CRUSHER NVEK

[Transporter room]

CRUSHER: Well, maybe he finally realised he made a
mistake. 
RIKER: It's twenty years too late. Energise. 
(a man in a Romulan uniform is beamed in) 
RIKER: Ensign DeSeve, by order of Starfleet Command I am placing you
under arrest for treason. 
DESEVE: I understand. 
RIKER: After Doctor Crusher declares you medically fit, you will be
confined to your quarters until a court martial can be convened. Find
some civilian clothes. I don't want to see you in that uniform. 
DESEVE: Yes, sir. Commander, I must speak with Captain Picard. 
RIKER: He's a busy man. 
DESEVE: Please, it's important. Urgent. 
RIKER: I'll tell him.

[DeSeve's quarters]

DESEVE: Commander. 
PICARD: At ease. It's Captain, actually. 
DESEVE: Of course. I'm sorry, sir. 
PICARD: You said it was important that I see you. 
DESEVE: Yes, Captain. I have a message from Ambassador Spock. He said
it involves further cowboy diplomacy. He said you would understand.
There's a Corvallen freighter arriving in the Kaleb sector in the next
twelve hours. Spock wants you to rendezvous with that ship, bring its
cargo back to Federation space. 
PICARD: What kind of cargo? 
DESEVE: He said it was important to the future of the Romulans and the
Federation. 
PICARD: You have returned in order to give me this message? 
DESEVE: Partly. 
PICARD: In order to know whether Ambassador Spock's message is being
delivered accurately, I need to understand something about the
messenger. 
DESEVE: I was ready to come back. Romulus had lost its appeal. 
PICARD: Yet at one time you found something very appealing about it. 
DESEVE: The Romulans are very moral, Captain. They have an absolute
certainty about what is right and what is wrong, who is a friend and
who is an enemy, a strict moral compass which provides them with a
clarity of purpose. At one time I found their sense of purpose, their
passion and commitment, to be very compelling. 
PICARD: But not any more? 
DESEVE: As I've grown older, I realise that clarity of purpose is a
more ambiguous matter than I had thought in my youth. 
PICARD: Commander Riker, set course for the Kaleb sector, warp factor
eight. 
RIKER [OC]: Aye-aye, sir.

[Warbird cargo bay]

(N'Vek is checking the cargo when Troi enters.
There is a guard present)
TROI: You may wait outside. Make certain we're not disturbed. 
(the guard leaves) 
TROI: They're terrified of me. 
N'VEK: The purpose of the Tal Shiar is to ensure loyalty. To defy them
is to invite imprisonment or death. 
TROI: I think it's time you told me what this is all about. 
N'VEK: That is why I called you here. These are the cargo containers we
brought on board earlier. 
TROI: What's in it? 
(N'Vek opens it to reveal a Romulan man) 
TROI: He's alive. In stasis. Who is it? 
N'VEK: Vice Proconsul M'ret of the Imperial Senate and his two top
aides. 
TROI: M'ret? He's one of the highest ranking members of the Romulan
government. 
N'VEK: His defection will be a profound blow to Romulus. 
TROI: Why is he doing this? 
N'VEK: M'ret had questioned the repressive activities of the government
and was in danger of being imprisoned. He is willing to take this risk
in order to protest Romulan policy and support the dissident movement. 
TROI: You're part of Ambassador Spock's underground movement. 
N'VEK: Yes. If we are able to deliver M'ret safely, Spock is hopeful
that we can establish an escape route for the thousands of dissidents
who live in fear of their lives. Now you realise why we are willing to
go to such extraordinary lengths, even kidnapping you, to make sure we
succeed. 
TROI: You've given me the identity of a Tal Shiar officer. Is there a
real Major Rakal? 
N'VEK: There was. She was killed so that you could take her place. Only
a member of the Tal Shiar would have the authority to alter a ship's
mission. 
TROI: Why me? You could have found a Romulan to play this role. 
N'VEK: Yes, for the first part of the plan. But if anything goes wrong
we will need a Starfleet officer. 
TROI: Why? 
N'VEK: There's no need to go into that unless it becomes necessary. For
your own sake, Counsellor, the less you know about the specifics of
this plan, the better. 
TROI: What is your plan? 
N'VEK: When we reach the Kaleb sector, we will rendezvous with a
Corvallen freighter. You will take these containers into their ship and
accompany them back to Starfleet Headquarters. 
TROI: The Corvallens are mercenaries. Do they know what's in these
containers? 
N'VEK: No. They were hired simply to take you to Federation space. 
TROI: Very well. 
N'VEK: We are due in the ward room shortly. The senior officers always
dine together. 
TROI: I'll go to my quarters. I think it would be best if I stayed out
of the way of the Commander. 
N'VEK: No, you will be expected to attend. I'll go ahead. Follow me
after a few moments. Commander Toreth must not feel that anything is
unusual.

