DESEVE TROI WORF TORETH PICARD NVEK

[Ready room]

PICARD: Ensign DeSeve, you promised me a freighter
with an important cargo. The only thing here is empty space. Do you
have an explanation? 
DESEVE: I don't understand. 
WORF: Captain, he has deceived us. 
DESEVE: No. I was told the ship would be at these coordinates. 
PICARD: You said that the message came directly from Ambassador Spock. 
DESEVE: Yes. Well, not exactly. 
PICARD: What does that mean? 
DESEVE: Someone else relayed the message to me, but he said Spock spoke
directly to him. I trust the man who spoke to me. He would not have
lied. 
WORF: Was he a Romulan? 
DESEVE: Yes. He's a member of the underground a dissident. He risks his
life to work with those who want a different future for Romulus. 
WORF: Captain, he could be leading us into a trap. 
DESEVE: No, that is not so. 
PICARD: It would be risky to set a trap here, so close to Federation
space. But the fact remains, here we are, there is no freighter. Did
your contact tell you anything else that might be helpful? 
DESEVE: The freighter is an old Antares class vessel with limited speed
and range. It couldn't have taken on its cargo more than a day ago
which means it must be within fifteen light years of here. 
PICARD: Why didn't you mention this earlier? 
DESEVE: It didn't seem necessary. And on Romulus you learn not to
volunteer information. It's a hard habit to break. 
PICARD: Well, maybe now would be a good time to start. Follow me,
gentlemen.

[Warbird cargo bay]

(Troi is pacing when N'Vek enters) 
N'VEK: Our plan has collapsed. 
TROI: Our plan? What about the people on that freighter? Why did you
fire? 
N'VEK: There was no alternative. You told me they couldn't be trusted.
If I let them live the whole mission would be in jeopardy. 
TROI: Eighteen people lost their lives. 
N'VEK: Don't lecture me, Counsellor. A number of people have died in
order to carry out this mission. Believe me, those eighteen won't be
the last. 
TROI: I'm sorry but I can't dismiss those lives so easily. 
N'VEK: Fine. Agonise all you want, but don't let it get in the way of
our plan. 
TROI: You don't have a plan anymore. 
N'VEK: You remember I told you if anything went wrong, we would need a
Starfleet officer. There is a Starfleet base on Draken Four. It is two
days away at maximum warp. That's where we're going. 
TROI: In a Romulan ship? 
N'VEK: Yes. It's your job to order Toreth to proceed into Federation
territory. 
TROI: We'll never get through the gravitic sensor nets. 
N'VEK: We will, if you provide the correct access codes. 
TROI: Do you really think this has a chance of succeeding? 
N'VEK: If you have another idea, I'll be happy to consider it.

[Warbird ward room]

TROI: You will plot a course for the Draken System.

TORETH: You can't be serious. 
TROI: Draken Four was the freighter's destination. I ordered the
freighter destroyed because I recognised the Captain, a known
Federation spy. Now we must deliver the cargo ourselves. 
TORETH: We must? 
TROI: I do not intend to explain myself to you. You will set a course. 
TORETH: In order to reach Draken, we will have to travel through
Federation space for nearly twenty hours. 
TROI: That is not a problem. 
TORETH: Contrary to the propaganda that your superiors would have us
believe, Starfleet is neither weak nor foolish. The chances of us
reaching Draken undetected are not good. 
TROI: We will be cloaked. 
TORETH: The cloaking device does not always make us invulnerable, and
you would know that if you had spent any time at all in the field. The
Federation has littered it's borders with subspace listening posts,
with gravitic sensors. They may even have a tachyon detection grid in
operation, in which case they will know that we're there. If we are
discovered in Federation territory, it will be interpreted as an act of
war. 
TROI: The Tal Shiar has obtained access codes for the sensor nets. I
will provide them if necessary. 
TORETH: That will be no guarantee that we will escape undetected. 
TROI: Your cowardice does not befit a Romulan soldier. 
TORETH: People blame the military for the wars that we are asked to
fight, but I think it is your kind, Major, that will be the death of us
all.

