TROI N'VEK TORETH PILOT
utmost proceed rakal clandestine long member say vek present

[Warbird bridge]

PILOT: Orbit established, Commander. 
TORETH: Commence loading the cargo. Notify me when the transfer is
complete. 
(everyone say hi! to Carolyn Seymour) 
PILOT: Yes, sir. 
(N'Vek and Troi enter) 
N'VEK: Commander, may I present Major Rakal of the Tal Shiar? This is
Commander Toreth. 
TORETH: Attend to your station. Why are you here without your guards?
Well? 
TROI: The mission is one of utmost secrecy. I could not risk bringing
guards. 
TORETH: And exactly what is the nature of this clandestine assignment? 
TROI: I cannot reveal that. 
TORETH: Oh? Why not? 
TROI: I am under orders. 
TORETH: You don't act like a member of the Tal Shiar. How long have you
been with Intelligence? 
TROI: Several months. 
TORETH: Ah. 
PILOT: Commander, cargo is on board and secure. 
TORETH: Tell me, is there a reason why the Commander of a ship is being
kept ignorant of its cargo? 
TROI: I don't know what you mean. 
TORETH: I have been ordered to take on cargo but its contents are
unknown to me. Does that seem wise? I am responsible for the safety of
this ship and its crew. How do I know this cargo is safe to transport? 
TROI: I'm sure it is safe, otherwise it would not have been loaded. 
TORETH: Ah. The Tal Shiar is deeply concerned for the safety and
well-being of the military. I'm sure that every person on the Bridge of
this ship could offer testimony about personal experiences with the Tal
Shiar, but I doubt that many could recall those encounters as tender
and caring. So I must ask you to forgive me, Major, if I hesitate to
accept your assurances that that cargo presents no danger to my crew. I
intend to open those containers. 
TROI: That cargo is the property of the Tal Shiar. You will not touch
it. 
TORETH: On whose authority? 
TROI: Mine. And if you do not wish to undergo another personal
experience with the Tal Shiar, I suggest you not question me again.
Now, proceed on course bearing one oh two mark four to the Kaleb
sector. 
TORETH: Why should we go to the Kaleb sector? It's virtually deserted. 
TROI: Because those are your orders. 
TORETH: Pilot, set course. Bearing one oh two mark four. Warp six. 
PILOT: Yes, Commander.

Captain's log, stardate 46519.1. We have arrived at
Research Station seventy five to take on a rather unique passenger, one
whose homecoming will undoubtedly be difficult.

