DESEVE TROI TORETH PICARD N'VEK RIKER MCKNIGHT DATA PILOT
considering precise defies magnetic manoeuvring slowly discretion alternative listen

[Warbird bridge]

TORETH: Engage manoeuvring engines, forward zero
point one. Take us directly under their hull. 
PILOT: Yes, Commander. 
TROI: What are you doing? 
TORETH: It seems that the Enterprise can track us even though we are
cloaked. I intend to find out whether they can or cannot. N'Vek, ready
attack procedure. 
N'VEK: Sir, disruptors are standing by. Ready to disengage cloak. 
TROI: We cannot risk an engagement here. 
TORETH: Considering the nature of our mission, I would have preferred
to have avoided it as well. But I see no other alternative. 
TROI: What do you intend to do? 
TORETH: We will pass as close as we possibly can. If they do have the
ability to track us, they will move to avoid a collision. If they do, I
will destroy them.

[Bridge]

DATA: Sir, the magnetic distortion has reappeared. 
PICARD: Bearing and speed? 
DATA: It appears to be moving toward us, closing slowly. Its bearing
indicates a possible collision course. 
RIKER: Time to impact? 
DATA: I am unable to make a precise measurement. However I would
estimate impact within ninety seconds. 
RIKER: It doesn't make any sense. Why would they run into us? And if
they were, why wouldn't they do it at full speed? 
DESEVE: I don't know, sir. The Romulans will sometimes make suicide
attacks, but only as a last resort. There's no reason for it here. 
DATA: Time to impact approximately sixty seconds. 
PICARD: We don't have the luxury to speculate. Back us away from the
distortion, Ensign. One half impulse. 
MCKNIGHT: Aye, sir.

[Warbird bridge]

PILOT: They are moving away, Commander. 
TORETH: Prepare attack sequence. 
N'VEK: All sections report ready for battle, Commander. 
PILOT: Disruptors fully charged. 
TORETH: Disengage cloak on my command. Prepare to fire. 
TROI: Disregard that order. 
TORETH: What? 
TROI: I do not authorise this attack. You will cease battle operations
immediately. 
TORETH: I do not need your authorisation to attack, Major. This is my
ship. 
TROI: How typical of the military to resort to brute force when
discretion is required. 
TORETH: The Enterprise has demonstrated that they can track us. They
must be destroyed. 
TROI: Yes, they can track us. So if we attack them, they will return
fire. And since we have no shields when we're cloaked, they will
destroy us. 
TORETH: Are you questioning my ability to command? 
TROI: You are not fit to command. Step down. Step down or I will have
you removed. 
TORETH: Do you think anyone here will listen to you? 
TROI: If any one of you defies the Tal Shiar, you will not bear the
punishment alone. Your families, all of them, will be there beside you.
I am now Commander of this ship. You will take orders from me and no
one else. Remove Commander Toreth from her station. If she resists,
shoot her. 
N'VEK: Commander, please, step down. 
TROI: Remove her weapon. 
(N'Vek does so) 
TROI: Now, Commander. Watch and learn. In order to defeat your enemy,
you must first understand them. The Federation wishes to avoid war at
all cost. So I shall offer them a diplomatic solution, get them to
lower their shields and then destroy them.

