DESEVE TROI TORETH PICARD N'VEK RIKER DATA PILOT
don ve getting informed residual battle precisely viewscreen instantly

[Warbird bridge]

TORETH: Plot a course for the Draken System. 
PILOT: Course plotted, sir. 
TORETH: Prepare for warp. 
PILOT: Commander, sensors are picking up a vessel. Our cloaking device
is still engaged. They have not detected us. 
TORETH: Activate viewscreen. Enlarge. 
PILOT: It is the Enterprise, Commander. 
TORETH: Well, Major, it appears your suspicions about that freighter
were correct after all. The Federation has come in search of its spies.
Status. 
PILOT: They are scanning the debris of the freighter. Shield levels are
normal. Weapon systems are not active. They are not prepared for
battle, sir. 
TORETH: They weren't expecting to find us here, and I see no reason to
alter that perception. The radiation from the debris field could make
our cloak detectable if we engage warp engines. Proceed at manoeuvring
speed. 
TROI: One moment, Commander. We should hold our position until the
Enterprise has left the area. We cannot risk detection. 
TORETH: Even if we are detected, they cannot track us once we go to
warp. 
TROI: We have not established their intentions. 
TORETH: Their intentions are obvious, Major, and are of no concern to
us. Proceed on course, manoeuvring engines only. Go to warp when we're
clear of the debris field. 
PILOT: Yes, Commander. We should clear the field in twenty seven
minutes. 
TROI: You will keep me informed of our progress. 
(Troi leaves) 
N'VEK: It is not wise to challenge the Tal Shiar, Commander. 
TORETH: I will not let her tell me how to run my ship.

[Bridge]

DATA: It appears to be the remains of a ship. My
analysis indicates that it was an Antares class freighter. 
DESEVE: That's the ship we were supposed to meet. 
PICARD: Could there have had some sort of malfunction? A reactor core
breach? 
DATA: I do not believe so, sir. That would not be consistent with the
debris pattern. However, sensors indicate extremely high levels of
residual antiprotons. 
RIKER: Romulan disruptor fire. 
DATA: Correct. Based on the antiproton decay, I would estimate the
incident occurred within the last four point three hours. 
PICARD: Then the Romulans could still be in the vicinity. 
RIKER: Red alert. Shields at maximum. 
PICARD: Whatever that freighter was carrying, they certainly didn't
want it to reach us. Are you sure you don't know what it was? 
DESEVE: No, sir. I swear it. 
PICARD: All we have here are questions. Mister Data, continue with your
scan.

[Warbird - Troi's quarters]

TROI: We have to get a message to the Enterprise. 
N'VEK: That's impossible. 
TROI: It's the perfect opportunity. The Enterprise is nearby. If we can
communicate with them, they might be able to help us. 
N'VEK: Counsellor, this ship is travelling under cloak. All of our
electromagnetic emissions are being monitored. Any attempt at
communication whatsoever and we would be discovered instantly. It could
not succeed. We must continue to Draken Four. That is the safest
course. 
TROI: Is there anything you can do to the ship or to the cloaking
device that would let the Enterprise track us? 
N'VEK: Track us? No. We want to get into Federation territory
undetected. 
TROI: What we want is to get the dissidents to safety. Now answer the
question. Is there a way? 
N'VEK: If there were, I wouldn't do it. 
TROI: Yes, you will. 
N'VEK: Counsellor. 
TROI: We're not playing it your way any more, N'Vek. I've been
kidnapped, surgically altered, put in danger I've gone along with all
your plans. Now you are going to listen to me. You find a way to let
the Enterprise track us, or I will go to Toreth and tell her I've
discovered you're a traitor. I'll order you ejected into space. Is that
clear, Subcommander? 
N'VEK: There is one possibility. In order for a ship to remain
undetectable while cloaked, the radiative emissions from the warp
engines must be precisely balanced. The ship's Engineer is a
sympathiser. He may be able to slightly misalign one of the nullifier
cores. It would create a small magnetic disturbance in space whenever
we were in motion. 
TROI: Good. Do it. 
N'VEK: The effect would only be intermittently. They might not even
detect it. 
TROI: If it's the best we can do, we have to try it. 
N'VEK: Anything more would be immediately registered on the Bridge.
Even this slight misalignment may be detected. 
TROI: It's a risk we have to take. You're the one who outlined the
stakes to me, N'Vek. Are you getting squeamish now, just because things
are getting a little more dangerous?

