DESEVE RIKER WORF PICARD RIKER [OC] CRUSHER
returned diplomacy aye maybe certainty oc late appealing moral

[Corridor]

WORF: The man acted dishonourably. He is a traitor.

CRUSHER: He risked his life to get here. He spent two weeks alone in a
scout ship. 
WORF: That does not excuse his original actions. 
[Transporter room]

CRUSHER: Well, maybe he finally realised he made a
mistake. 
RIKER: It's twenty years too late. Energise. 
(a man in a Romulan uniform is beamed in) 
RIKER: Ensign DeSeve, by order of Starfleet Command I am placing you
under arrest for treason. 
DESEVE: I understand. 
RIKER: After Doctor Crusher declares you medically fit, you will be
confined to your quarters until a court martial can be convened. Find
some civilian clothes. I don't want to see you in that uniform. 
DESEVE: Yes, sir. Commander, I must speak with Captain Picard. 
RIKER: He's a busy man. 
DESEVE: Please, it's important. Urgent. 
RIKER: I'll tell him.

[DeSeve's quarters]

DESEVE: Commander. 
PICARD: At ease. It's Captain, actually. 
DESEVE: Of course. I'm sorry, sir. 
PICARD: You said it was important that I see you. 
DESEVE: Yes, Captain. I have a message from Ambassador Spock. He said
it involves further cowboy diplomacy. He said you would understand.
There's a Corvallen freighter arriving in the Kaleb sector in the next
twelve hours. Spock wants you to rendezvous with that ship, bring its
cargo back to Federation space. 
PICARD: What kind of cargo? 
DESEVE: He said it was important to the future of the Romulans and the
Federation. 
PICARD: You have returned in order to give me this message? 
DESEVE: Partly. 
PICARD: In order to know whether Ambassador Spock's message is being
delivered accurately, I need to understand something about the
messenger. 
DESEVE: I was ready to come back. Romulus had lost its appeal. 
PICARD: Yet at one time you found something very appealing about it. 
DESEVE: The Romulans are very moral, Captain. They have an absolute
certainty about what is right and what is wrong, who is a friend and
who is an enemy, a strict moral compass which provides them with a
clarity of purpose. At one time I found their sense of purpose, their
passion and commitment, to be very compelling. 
PICARD: But not any more? 
DESEVE: As I've grown older, I realise that clarity of purpose is a
more ambiguous matter than I had thought in my youth. 
PICARD: Commander Riker, set course for the Kaleb sector, warp factor
eight. 
RIKER [OC]: Aye-aye, sir.

