DESEVE TROI TORETH PICARD N'VEK RIKER DATA PILOT
activate shield vicinity befit swear known come shields plotted

[Warbird ward room]

TROI: You will plot a course for the Draken System.

TORETH: You can't be serious. 
TROI: Draken Four was the freighter's destination. I ordered the
freighter destroyed because I recognised the Captain, a known
Federation spy. Now we must deliver the cargo ourselves. 
TORETH: We must? 
TROI: I do not intend to explain myself to you. You will set a course. 
TORETH: In order to reach Draken, we will have to travel through
Federation space for nearly twenty hours. 
TROI: That is not a problem. 
TORETH: Contrary to the propaganda that your superiors would have us
believe, Starfleet is neither weak nor foolish. The chances of us
reaching Draken undetected are not good. 
TROI: We will be cloaked. 
TORETH: The cloaking device does not always make us invulnerable, and
you would know that if you had spent any time at all in the field. The
Federation has littered it's borders with subspace listening posts,
with gravitic sensors. They may even have a tachyon detection grid in
operation, in which case they will know that we're there. If we are
discovered in Federation territory, it will be interpreted as an act of
war. 
TROI: The Tal Shiar has obtained access codes for the sensor nets. I
will provide them if necessary. 
TORETH: That will be no guarantee that we will escape undetected. 
TROI: Your cowardice does not befit a Romulan soldier. 
TORETH: People blame the military for the wars that we are asked to
fight, but I think it is your kind, Major, that will be the death of us
all.

[Warbird bridge]

TORETH: Plot a course for the Draken System. 
PILOT: Course plotted, sir. 
TORETH: Prepare for warp. 
PILOT: Commander, sensors are picking up a vessel. Our cloaking device
is still engaged. They have not detected us. 
TORETH: Activate viewscreen. Enlarge. 
PILOT: It is the Enterprise, Commander. 
TORETH: Well, Major, it appears your suspicions about that freighter
were correct after all. The Federation has come in search of its spies.
Status. 
PILOT: They are scanning the debris of the freighter. Shield levels are
normal. Weapon systems are not active. They are not prepared for
battle, sir. 
TORETH: They weren't expecting to find us here, and I see no reason to
alter that perception. The radiation from the debris field could make
our cloak detectable if we engage warp engines. Proceed at manoeuvring
speed. 
TROI: One moment, Commander. We should hold our position until the
Enterprise has left the area. We cannot risk detection. 
TORETH: Even if we are detected, they cannot track us once we go to
warp. 
TROI: We have not established their intentions. 
TORETH: Their intentions are obvious, Major, and are of no concern to
us. Proceed on course, manoeuvring engines only. Go to warp when we're
clear of the debris field. 
PILOT: Yes, Commander. We should clear the field in twenty seven
minutes. 
TROI: You will keep me informed of our progress. 
(Troi leaves) 
N'VEK: It is not wise to challenge the Tal Shiar, Commander. 
TORETH: I will not let her tell me how to run my ship.

[Bridge]

DATA: It appears to be the remains of a ship. My
analysis indicates that it was an Antares class freighter. 
DESEVE: That's the ship we were supposed to meet. 
PICARD: Could there have had some sort of malfunction? A reactor core
breach? 
DATA: I do not believe so, sir. That would not be consistent with the
debris pattern. However, sensors indicate extremely high levels of
residual antiprotons. 
RIKER: Romulan disruptor fire. 
DATA: Correct. Based on the antiproton decay, I would estimate the
incident occurred within the last four point three hours. 
PICARD: Then the Romulans could still be in the vicinity. 
RIKER: Red alert. Shields at maximum. 
PICARD: Whatever that freighter was carrying, they certainly didn't
want it to reach us. Are you sure you don't know what it was? 
DESEVE: No, sir. I swear it. 
PICARD: All we have here are questions. Mister Data, continue with your
scan.

