WOMAN [OC] MAURICE CREWWOMAN [OC] Q MAN [OC] PICARD CREWMAN [OC]
lived needed blasphemy falls started woman white regrets nausicaan

[Limbo]

(A bright white void. There is a figure also in
shimmering white nearby). Picard touches it's hand and then sees who it
is.) 
Q: Welcome to the afterlife, Jean-Luc. You're dead. 
PICARD: Q, what is going on? 
Q: I told you. You're dead. This is the afterlife, and I'm God. 
PICARD: You are not God. 
Q: Blasphemy! You're lucky I don't cast you out, or smite you or
something. The bottom line is, your life ended about five minutes ago,
under the inept ministrations of Doctor Beverly Crusher. 
PICARD: No. I am not dead. Because I refuse to believe that the
afterlife is run by you. The universe is not so badly designed. 
Q: Very well. If you really require more evidence of your post-mortem
status, I guess I'll just have to provide you some. 
MAURICE: Jean-Luc, I told you not to go running off to that Academy. 
PICARD: Father. 
MAURICE: I told you that Starfleet would bring you to a bad end, but
you wouldn't listen. Now look at you. Dead before your time. 
PICARD: Q, enough of this. 
Q: Enough what? 
MAURICE: Why couldn't you have listened? Didn't you know that I was
working for your best interests? 
PICARD: Q, stop this. 
MAURICE: After all these years, even now, you manage to disappoint me,
Jean-Luc. 
Q: He's not the only one who'd like to have a word with you. 
WOMAN [OC]: Why, Jean-Luc? Why did you do it? 
CREWWOMAN [OC]: Captain, there are still people down there. You can't
abandon them. 
CREWMAN [OC]: There must be some other way, Captain. Some other choice
than firing on them. 
MAN [OC]: If you continue on this course. 
CREWMAN [OC]: A direct hit, sir. The ship is destroyed. 
Q: These are the voices of all the people you've killed throughout the
years. 
PICARD: Whom I've killed? What do you mean? 
Q: Death has made you a little dim, Jean-Luc. These are the voices of
all the people who have died through your actions or your inactions.
Now, if you have any words of apology or regret, I believe they're all
listening. They're a surly bunch, actually, so don't drag this out too
long. 
PICARD: I've no intention of performing for your amusement. 
Q: This is not for me. This is for you, Jean-Luc. This is your
opportunity to make peace with your sordid past. 
PICARD: I find it hard to believe that you are doing this for the
benefit of my soul. 
Q: Well, now that you've shuffled off the mortal coil, we're free to
spend a little time together. 
PICARD: A little time together? How much? 
Q: Eternity. Now, you're sure you have no regrets or feelings of guilt
about your former life? I can't have you whining and complaining
through time. 
PICARD: If I'm really dead, then my only regret is dying and finding
you here. 
Q: You wound me, Jean-Luc. After all, I was not the cause of your
death. This was. 
(He holds up the contraption Kate Pulaski put in him all those seasons
ago) 
PICARD: Is that? 
Q: Your artificial heart. You might have lived if you had a real one
instead of this unreliable piece of technology. By the way, how did you
lose yours anyway? 
PICARD: A mistake. 
Q: Is that a regret I hear? 
PICARD: I regret a great many things from those days. 
Q: Really? 
(A Nausicaan and a young man in old-style uniform are fighting. Then a
second Nausicaan joins in, and a third stabs the man through the back.
The blade sticks out of his chest. The young man falls to his knees,
looks at the knife point and laughs, then falls to the floor.) 
Q: It wasn't very smart of you to take on three Nausicaans, was it? 
PICARD: No, it wasn't. 
Q: And did I hear a laugh? It's so unlike you, Jean-Luc, to have a
sense of humour, especially about getting stabbed through the back. 
PICARD: I was a different person in those days. Arrogant,
undisciplined, with far too much ego and too little wisdom. I was more
like you. 
Q: Then you must have been far more interesting. Pity you had to
change. 
PICARD: The pity is that I had to be impaled through the back before I
learned that lesson. I started that fight with those Nausicaans. I
started it because, because I was young and cocky. If I'd been more
responsible in those days, I wouldn't have needed this heart, and I
wouldn't have died from a random energy surge thirty years later. 
Q: So, if you had it to do all over again? 
PICARD: Things would be different. 
