MARTA PICARD COREY Q

[Starbase - Picard's quarters]

COREY: I've played a lot of dom-jot in a lot of
places. I've never seen the balls roll that well for anyone. 
MARTA: So he was cheating? 
COREY: I'll bet you that he had some sort of magnetic device in his
belt. It was controlling the balls. 
MARTA: That's terrible. 
COREY: We've got to get even. 
MARTA: What did you have in mind? 
COREY: Well, we could do to him what he did to us. Cheat. Only this
time we'll rig the table so his device'll backfire on him. 
PICARD: Corey, that won't solve anything. 
COREY: It'll teach him that he can't go round cheating Starfleet
officers. 
PICARD: All it'll do is provoke him. And provoking a Nausicaan is not a
good idea. 
COREY: I can handle him. 
PICARD: What if he's not alone? What if he brings some of his Nausicaan
friends with him? 
COREY: Well then I guess that when I'll have to depend on my friends to
help me out. 
PICARD: Corey, there's got to be a better way to handle this. 
COREY: When did you start backing away from a good fight? 
PICARD: Look Corey, we're not cadets anymore. We're officers. We should
start to set a higher standard for ourselves. 
MARTA: It was a good idea,, but let's just forget it, okay? 
(Corey leaves) 
MARTA: He'll get over it. 
PICARD: I hope so. What? 
MARTA: Nothing. It's just you'd usually be the one plotting revenge. 
PICARD: Yes, that would be more in character, wouldn't it? 
MARTA: Much. But I always suspected you had a hidden streak of
responsibility somewhere. 
PICARD: Perhaps it's just that I'm getting older. 
MARTA: Maybe these bars are just starting to feel a little heavy,
Ensign. Ensign Picard and Ensign Batanides. It sounds weird, doesn't
it? 
PICARD: It's going to take some getting used to. 
MARTA: It's too bad we can't get used to it together. The three of us,
I mean. 
PICARD: Oh, of course. 
(doorbell) 
PICARD: Come. 
Q: Flowers! Is there a John Luck Pickard here? 
MARTA: From one of your conquests, no doubt. I guess some things aren't
going to change. 
(Marta leaves) 
Q: Did I interrupt anything sordid, I hope? 
PICARD: No, Q, you did not. 
Q: Pity. She's quite attractive. 
PICARD: We were friends, nothing more. 
Q: Is that another regret I hear? My, my. We're simply riddled with
regrets about our youth, now aren't we? 
PICARD: My friendship with Marta is not something I regret. 
Q: But you wish it had been more than just friendship, don't you? Well,
maybe you can change all that. 
PICARD: Q, what is it you want? 
Q: I thought you'd like to know that Mister Zweller has decided not to
take your advice. He's in the Bonestell Facility right now, rigging the
table to beat the Nausicaan. I guess you weren't that persuasive.

