MARTA PICARD COREY Q COMPUTER

[Starbase - Picard's quarters]

8.27
(Picard, in old style uniform, gets slapped across the face by a woman
who then storms out of the room) 
MARTA: Bravo! Bravo! 
COREY: Nicely done. 
PICARD: Cortan? Cortan Zweller? 
COREY: (a red-haired young man) Yes. Boy, she must've hit you pretty
hard. Of course, you deserved it. 
MARTA: (a dark-haired young woman) You're slowing down there, Johnny.
You should've seen that one coming. 
PICARD: Marta Batanides. 
MARTA: Are you okay? 
PICARD: Yes, I'm fine. I'm just a little disoriented, that's all. 
COREY: Come on, he's just playing for sympathy now. Look, I'm going to
get something to eat and head over to the casino at Bonestell. You
coming? 
PICARD: I'll catch up with you there. 
MARTA: You sure you're okay? 
PICARD: Yes, I'm fine. Really, Marta, I'm fine. 
COREY: Come on, Marty. I bet he's got another date. 
MARTA: That's it, isn't it? You are incorrigible. 
(Corey and Marta leave, and Q appears in modern uniform) 
COREY: Try not to end up in the hospital. 
Q: Attention on deck, Ensign Picard. 
PICARD: Q. 
Q: That's Captain Q to you, young man. 
PICARD: What's the point of creating this fantasy? 
Q: This is no fantasy, I assure you. It's all very real. You're twenty
one years old again. A brash young man, fresh out of the Academy. 
PICARD: I certainly don't look it. 
Q: Well, to everyone else you do. 
PICARD: So, Q, I thought you told me that I was dead. Now it seems that
I'm alive. 
Q: Oh, you mortals are so obtuse. Why do you persist in believing that
life and death are such static and rigid concepts. Why, I can take your
life and give it back to you again with the snap of a finger. 
PICARD: Let's say for the moment that may be true. What is the purpose
of bringing me here? 
Q: You said you regretted a great many things in your life. Well,
here's a chance to change some of them. 
PICARD: Change them? You mean change the past? Q, even if you have been
able to bring me back in time somehow, surely you must realise that any
alteration in this timeline will have a profound impact on the future. 
Q: Please. Spare me your egotistical musings on your pivotal role in
history. Nothing you do here will cause the Federation to collapse or
galaxies to explode. To be blunt, you're not that important. 
PICARD: I won't do it. I won't alter history. 
Q: Oh, very well. Since you attach so much importance to the continuity
of time, I will give you my personal guarantee that nothing you do here
will end up hurting anyone, or have an adverse affect on what you know
of as history. The only thing at stake here is your life and your peace
of mind. Now, whether you believe me or not, you are here, and you have
a second chance. What you choose to do with it is entirely up to you.
Do you know where you are? 
PICARD: Starbase Earhart. We came here right after graduation to await
our first deep space assignments. 
Q: That's right. It's two days before your unfortunate encounter with a
Nausicaan sword. You have that long to make whatever changes you wish.
If you can avoid getting stabbed through the heart this time, which I
doubt, I will take you back to what you think of as the present. And
you can go on with your life with a real heart. 
PICARD: Then I won't die? 
Q: Of course you'll die. It'll just be at a later time. 
PICARD: What if I don't avoid the fight? What if I won't make the
changes? 
Q: Then you die on the table, and we spend eternity together. 
PICARD: Wonderful. 
Q: I'm glad you think so. I am curious about one thing, Johnny. Why did
that rather attractive woman strike you just now? Something you said? 
PICARD: Her name was Corlina. I'd arranged to take her out today, and
then she discovered that I had already made a second date with another
woman called, er, Penny, and Corlina was naturally upset. 
Q: I'd no idea you were such a cad. I'm impressed. 
PICARD: Computer, what is the time right now? 
COMPUTER: Sixteen eleven hours. 
PICARD: In fact, Penny is waiting for me right now. 
Q: Well, carry on. 
