BASHIR RIKER DATA LAFORGE WORF
conduit work complete ll didn stop biocybernetic ship come

[Replimat]

WORF: What is this? 
LAFORGE: It's pasta al fiorella. One of my favourites. Don't worry,
you'll love it. You know, I really want to take a look at those Ktarian
antiques. I understand they've got a twenty first century plasma coil
in almost perfect condition. (pushes plate away) I'll have to talk to
Chief O'Brien about these replicators. Worf, I don't see how you can
eat that stuff. It tastes like liquid polymer. 
WORF: Delicious. 
LAFORGE: You know, I think I'm going to try that kiosk on the other
side of the promenade. It looked like they had some real food. 
[Bridge]

DATA: Commander, I am reading a minor power drain
in the starboard EPS conduit. 
RIKER: What's causing it? 
DATA: The problem's originating in Sickbay. There has been an
unauthorized access into the computer's bio-imaging systems. 
RIKER: You'd better check it out. 
DATA: Aye, sir.

[Medical lab]

(a young, eager, intense Doctor in engrossed in
what he is doing) 
DATA: Excuse me. Do you have authorisation to work in this area? 
BASHIR: Come in, come in. I need a hand with this field generator. See
if you can boost the power output to sixty five percent. 
DATA: I am sorry, but use of sickbay equipment is limited to ship's
medical personnel. 
BASHIR: Ah. Doctor Julian Bashir, Chief Medical officer, Deep Space
Nine. And you are Commander? 
DATA: Data. 
BASHIR: Commander Data. The synthetic lifeform. 
DATA: Yes. 
BASHIR: It's an honour to meet you, sir. I've heard so much about you.
You must have a fascinating perspective into biocybernetic research.
I'd be delighted if we could discuss the subject sometime. 
DATA: I would be happy to do so. However, I must ask you to stop your
experiment. 
BASHIR: Ah, yes. I realise I should have asked before using your
sickbay, but it would've taken me days to analyse this device with the
computer I have on Deep Space Nine. 
DATA: What type of device is this? 
BASHIR: It was discovered in the Gamma Quadrant. I think it must be
some sort of medical instrument. 
DATA: It appears to employ plasma inputs. 
BASHIR: I'm hoping it's a medical scanner. I wanted to use your
computer to find out how it works. 
DATA: I suggest we take it to Engineering and run a complete
circuit-pathway diagnostic. 
BASHIR: Splendid. I must admit, Commander I didn't think you'd be so
personable.

