SOONG DATA BASHIR
changing subprocessors dream unpredictable dreaming reached visions think wonders

[Corridor]

(Once again, Data finds Soong at the anvil. He
plunges a bird's wing into water, and steam rises. When it clears,
Soong is gone and a raven is there. It flies off down the corridor) 
DATA: The bird did not appear in my original experience. This vision is
different. 
[Bridge]

(There is no furniture, no equipment) 
SOONG: Of course it's different. It's never the same. Always changing.
Unpredictable. It doesn't make sense. 
DATA: What is happening, Father? 
SOONG: I don't know, Data. What is happening? 
DATA: We are on the Bridge of the Enterprise. My cat is present, my
potted plant, and my paintings. 
SOONG: A beginning. Still a little grounded in the mundane, but showing
promise. 
DATA: I do not understand. 
SOONG: You're not supposed to. No man should know where his dreams come
from. It spoils the mystery, the fun. I'm proud of you, son. I wasn't
sure you'd ever develop the cognitive abilities to make it this far.
But if you're here, if you can see me, you've crossed over the
threshold from being a collection of circuits and subprocessors and
have started a wonderful journey. 
DATA: What type of journey? 
(Data is lying on a bed) 
SOONG: Think of it, think of it as an empty sky. 
DATA: I do not understand. 
SOONG: Shh. Just dream, Data. Dream. Data, you are the bird. 
(and he flies along the corridor, past Soong and out into the wonders
of space before waking up again in Engineering) 
[Corridor]

DATA: The images I saw during the time I was shut
down were generated by a series of previously dormant circuits in my
neural net. I believe Doctor Soong incorporated those circuits into my
base programming, intending to activate them when I reached a certain
level of development. 
BASHIR: But the plasma shock activated them prematurely. 
DATA: That is correct. 
BASHIR: I'm curious. Now that those circuits are active, what are you
going to do with them? 
DATA: I plan to shut down my cognitive functions for a brief period
each day. I hope to generate new internal visions. 
BASHIR: It sounds to me like you're talking about dreaming. 
DATA: An accurate analogy. 
BASHIR: Remarkable. You know, this is just the kind of thing that might
get me published in the Starfleet Cybernetics Journal. Would you mind
if I authored a paper on all this? 
DATA: Of course not. 
BASHIR: Thank you, Data. And sweet dreams. 
(and Sid pads off down the corridor, wearing the pink overshoes
designed to reduce sound on stage) 
