WORF PICARD ROMULAN BAEL SHREK DATA

[Ready room]

PICARD: Come. 
(Data enters) 
PICARD: Yes, Mister Data? 
DATA: I am sorry to disturb you, sir. 
PICARD: Not at all. I'm here studying the intricacies of Bajoran
aqueduct management. I would welcome an interruption. Please, sit down.

DATA: I require your advice. I have come to an impasse regarding my
recent unexplained experience. 
PICARD: Your vision of Doctor Soong. How is your investigation
proceeding? 
DATA: I have analysed over four thousand different religious and
philosophical systems, as well as over two hundred psychological
schools of thought, in an effort to understand what happened. 
PICARD: And what have you found? 
DATA: I have been unable to find a single interpretation of the images
I saw during the time I was shut down. The hammer, for instance, has
several meanings. The Klingon culture views the hammer as a symbol of
power. However, the Taqua tribe of Nagor sees it as an icon of hearth
and home. The Ferengis view it as a sign of sexual prowess. 
PICARD: I'm curious, Mister Data. Why are you looking at all these
other cultures? 
DATA: The interpretation of visions and other metaphysical experiences
are almost always culturally derived, and I have no culture of my own. 
PICARD: Yes, you do. You're a culture of one, which is no less valid
than a culture of one billion. Perhaps the key to understanding your
experience is to stop looking into other sources for a meaning. When we
look at Michaelangelo's David or Symnay's Tomb and we don't ask what
does this mean to other people. The real question is, what does it mean
to us? Explore this image, Data. Let it excite your imagination. Focus
on it. See where it leads you. Let it inspire you. 
DATA: I believe I understand, sir. Thank you. 
PICARD: Good luck, Mister Data.

[Data's quarters]

(Data paints his vision, then begins to embellish
it)

[Jungle]

(it is dark and there are lots of noises) 
SHREK: The camp is in a southeasterly direction. After approximately
ten kilometres, you will come to the edge of the sulphur canyon. Look
for a riverbank and follow it until you come to the camp. This is a
homing device. It will allow you to find my ship when I return. I will
not be landing in the same location. 
WORF: When will you return? 
SHREK: Fifty hours. Do not be late. 
(Worf sets off, looking up regularly. Many hours later, he hears
splashing and finds himself spying on someone who has just been bathing
in a pool. We discover this is a Klingon young lady) 
BA'EL: Who's there? Toq, is that you? I can see you. I hope you're
enjoying yourself. Toq, I swear I will hang you by your 
(Worf stands, she starts to run) 
WORF: Stop, please, 
BA'EL: Who are you? 
WORF: I've come to help you. 
BA'EL: Help me? 
WORF: Yes. How did you get out of the camp? Does anyone know you are
gone? 
BA'EL: Yes I come here often 
WORF: You must lead me to the camp. 
BA'EL: You are Klingon. Where did you come from? 
WORF: That does not matter. I have come to take you home. 
BA'EL: Home? This is my home. 
ROMULAN [OC]: Ba'el? 
WORF: It is very important you tell no one you saw me. 
(Ba'el goes to meet the person who called her) 
BA'EL: Is it time for the ceremony? 
ROMULAN: Yes, we're about to begin. 
