BASHIR SHREK DATA WORF
employ sure generator come engineering private alien chief dodgy

[Medical lab]

(a young, eager, intense Doctor in engrossed in
what he is doing) 
DATA: Excuse me. Do you have authorisation to work in this area? 
BASHIR: Come in, come in. I need a hand with this field generator. See
if you can boost the power output to sixty five percent. 
DATA: I am sorry, but use of sickbay equipment is limited to ship's
medical personnel. 
BASHIR: Ah. Doctor Julian Bashir, Chief Medical officer, Deep Space
Nine. And you are Commander? 
DATA: Data. 
BASHIR: Commander Data. The synthetic lifeform. 
DATA: Yes. 
BASHIR: It's an honour to meet you, sir. I've heard so much about you.
You must have a fascinating perspective into biocybernetic research.
I'd be delighted if we could discuss the subject sometime. 
DATA: I would be happy to do so. However, I must ask you to stop your
experiment. 
BASHIR: Ah, yes. I realise I should have asked before using your
sickbay, but it would've taken me days to analyse this device with the
computer I have on Deep Space Nine. 
DATA: What type of device is this? 
BASHIR: It was discovered in the Gamma Quadrant. I think it must be
some sort of medical instrument. 
DATA: It appears to employ plasma inputs. 
BASHIR: I'm hoping it's a medical scanner. I wanted to use your
computer to find out how it works. 
DATA: I suggest we take it to Engineering and run a complete
circuit-pathway diagnostic. 
BASHIR: Splendid. I must admit, Commander I didn't think you'd be so
personable.

[Replimat]

(a very wrinkled alien with the voice of the modern
Zephram Cochrane approaches Worf while he is still eating the dodgy
pasta) 
SHREK: Klingon. You are Starfleet Klingon. 
WORF: I am Lieutenant Worf. 
SHREK: Worf. Son of Mogh. 
WORF: What of it? 
SHREK: I am Jaglom Shrek, a man with information to sell. 
WORF: You have no information I could use. 
SHREK: I would not be so sure. It is about your father, Mogh. 
WORF: My father died twenty five years ago at Khitomer. 
SHREK: That is what you believe. What if I tell you he is still alive? 
[Somewhere dark and private]

WORF: My father is dead. 
SHREK: No, he's not. I know where he is. 
WORF: How is that possible? 
SHREK: I expect to be paid for my information. Perhaps we could
negotiate an exchange. The location of your father, for 
WORF: Tell me what you know. 
SHREK: Not all of the Klingons at Khitomer were killed during the
massacre. Many were captured by the Romulans and placed in a prison
camp on a remote planet. Your father was among them. 
WORF: Where is this planet? 
SHREK: Not far from here. I could give you the location, for a price. 
WORF: A Klingon would rather die than be taken prisoner. I should kill
you for spreading lies about my family. My father was killed defending
Khitomer.

