DATA SHREK WORF

[Ten Forward]

(Data is about to speak, then changes his mind) 
WORF: Wait. What is it, Commander? 
DATA: I am sorry to bother you, but I have a question of a personal
nature. Do you have a moment? 
WORF: A moment. 
DATA: I have heard you mention that you once experienced a vision. 
WORF: Yes. When I was young my adoptive parents arranged for me to
partake in the Rite of MajQa. 
DATA: I understand it involves deep meditation in the lava caves of
No'Mat. That prolonged exposure to the heat induces a hallucinatory
effect. 
WORF: Why are you asking me about this? 
DATA: I have recently had an unusual experience, which might be
described as a vision. 
WORF: What happened? 
DATA: An accident in Engineering shut down my cognitive functions for a
short period of time, yet I seemed to remain conscious. I saw my
father. 
WORF: You are very fortunate. That is a powerful vision. 
DATA: If it was a vision, I do not know how to proceed. 
WORF: You must find its meaning. If it has anything to do with your
father, you must learn all you can about it. In the Klingon MajQa
ritual, there is nothing more important than receiving a revelation
about your father. Your father is part of you, always. Learning about
him teaches you about yourself. That is why no matter where he is or
what he has done, you must find him. 
DATA: But I am not looking for my father. 
WORF: Yes, of course. Do not stop until you have the answer. 
DATA: Thank you, Worf.

[Promenade]

(Morn is in conversation with a blue-skinned woman
when Worf spots Shrek on the upper level) 
SHREK: Lieutenant Worf. You have reconsidered. 
WORF: Yes. I wish to go to the Romulan prison camp. 
SHREK: Excellent. I can provide you with the coordinates. 
WORF: No. You will take me there. 
SHREK: No, it's not possible. I have no means of transportation. 
WORF: I checked the station records. You have a vessel that is capable
of warp speed. 
SHREK: I, I do not have the time. I have other business. 
(Worf dangles Shrek over the railing) 
WORF: What is the real reason you do not wish to take me? Is it because
what you have told me is not true? 
SHREK: No. The camp is located on the edge of Romulan space. It is a
dangerous journey. 
WORF: Dangerous? It would be more dangerous for you to refuse. 
SHREK: Very well. But I will require full payment in advance. 
WORF: No. No, I will pay you after. 
SHREK: But 
(Worf leans him further over the railing) 
SHREK: Yes, yes, of course. After. 
WORF: If you are lying, if there is no prison camp, I will kill you.

[Shrek's shuttlecraft]

SHREK: The Romulan guards have a detection
perimeter. It will be necessary to transport you to the surface thirty
kilometres from the prison camp. 
WORF: The foliage is very dense. It will take me approximately twelve
hours to reach the camp. I may have to travel during the night. 
SHREK: That would be unwise. This is not an empty jungle. There are
many predators. 
WORF: I am prepared. 
SHREK: Very well. But I recommend that you look up from time to time.
The arboreal needle snake likes to attack from above. I will provide
you with a map of the camp. 
WORF: How did you learn of this camp? 
SHREK: It is not important for you to know. 
WORF: Why have you not informed the Klingon government of this place? 
SHREK: I sell information. I do not give it away. 
WORF: You do this for profit. 
SHREK: I have my reasons, Mister Worf. 
WORF: What reasons could you have for letting these people suffer? 
SHREK: We will arrive in the Carraya Sector in approximately three
hours. I suggest you get some rest.

