RIKER SHREK TROI WORF

[Somewhere dark and private]

WORF: My father is dead. 
SHREK: No, he's not. I know where he is. 
WORF: How is that possible? 
SHREK: I expect to be paid for my information. Perhaps we could
negotiate an exchange. The location of your father, for 
WORF: Tell me what you know. 
SHREK: Not all of the Klingons at Khitomer were killed during the
massacre. Many were captured by the Romulans and placed in a prison
camp on a remote planet. Your father was among them. 
WORF: Where is this planet? 
SHREK: Not far from here. I could give you the location, for a price. 
WORF: A Klingon would rather die than be taken prisoner. I should kill
you for spreading lies about my family. My father was killed defending
Khitomer.

[Bridge]

WORF: Ensign Lopez. This duty roster is
unacceptable. The assignments should be listed in order of priority.
Prepare it
again. I will expect it no later than oh nine hundred hours. Dismissed.

RIKER: Worf, we need to get your rendezvous schedule to Commander
Rudman on board the Merrimac as soon as you 
WORF: I am well aware of your request, Commander. 
RIKER: Lieutenant, are you all right? 
WORF: Yes, sir. I am fine. I will send your schedule, sir. Excuse me.

[Worf's quarters]

(he is practising his martial arts, but gets angry
and smashes a glass table. The doorbell chimes) 
WORF: Enter. 
TROI: Did the table do something wrong? 
WORF: No. 
TROI: I'm glad you weren't that hard on Ensign Lopez. 
WORF: He made a mistake. The duty roster was inaccurate. 
TROI: Would you like to talk about what's bothering you or would you
like to break some more furniture? 
WORF: Today on the Promenade, a Yridian approached me. He knew who I
was and tried to sell me information about Mogh. 
TROI: Your father? 
WORF: He claimed that he's alive and is being held captive in a Romulan
prison camp. 
TROI: My god. Could it be true? 
WORF: A Klingon would never allow himself to be captured. A warrior
fights to the death. If my father were alive it would dishonour his
sons and their sons for three generations. Even Alexander would bear
the burden of guilt. 
TROI: So, you're willing to ignore the possibility because you're
concerned about dishonour? 
WORF: My father is dead. That Yridian is selling lies! 
TROI: If you're so sure about that, why are you still so upset? Worf,
you can't deny the possibility just because you don't want it to be
true. If you want to talk about this, you know where to find me.

