LAFORGE WORF SHREK ROMULAN [OC] BA'EL ROMULAN DATA
ve anvil toq yeah water supposed ship continued bird

[Data's quarters]

(Data paints his vision, then begins to embellish
it)

[Jungle]

(it is dark and there are lots of noises) 
SHREK: The camp is in a southeasterly direction. After approximately
ten kilometres, you will come to the edge of the sulphur canyon. Look
for a riverbank and follow it until you come to the camp. This is a
homing device. It will allow you to find my ship when I return. I will
not be landing in the same location. 
WORF: When will you return? 
SHREK: Fifty hours. Do not be late. 
(Worf sets off, looking up regularly. Many hours later, he hears
splashing and finds himself spying on someone who has just been bathing
in a pool. We discover this is a Klingon young lady) 
BA'EL: Who's there? Toq, is that you? I can see you. I hope you're
enjoying yourself. Toq, I swear I will hang you by your 
(Worf stands, she starts to run) 
WORF: Stop, please, 
BA'EL: Who are you? 
WORF: I've come to help you. 
BA'EL: Help me? 
WORF: Yes. How did you get out of the camp? Does anyone know you are
gone? 
BA'EL: Yes I come here often 
WORF: You must lead me to the camp. 
BA'EL: You are Klingon. Where did you come from? 
WORF: That does not matter. I have come to take you home. 
BA'EL: Home? This is my home. 
ROMULAN [OC]: Ba'el? 
WORF: It is very important you tell no one you saw me. 
(Ba'el goes to meet the person who called her) 
BA'EL: Is it time for the ceremony? 
ROMULAN: Yes, we're about to begin. 
[Data's quarters]

(the painting has developed a lot when the doorbell
rings) 
DATA: Come in. 
LAFORGE: Data, what are you doing? We were supposed to meet at 
(There are lots of paintings stacked around the walls. Corridor, hammer
striking metal, hand. Data is working on two more at the same time.) 
LAFORGE: Data, what are you doing? 
DATA: I am painting. 
LAFORGE: I can see that. How long have you been at this? 
DATA: I have created twenty three individual illustrations in the past
six hours, twenty seven minutes. I believe you could say I have been
inspired. 
LAFORGE: I'll say. 
DATA: I have done as Captain Picard suggested. I have tried to explore
the images. 
LAFORGE: Has it helped? 
DATA: I am not certain. I began by painting the image of the
blacksmith. Then I painted the corridor. After that, the anvil, the
hammer, and Doctor Soong's face. The thought then occurred to me that I
should paint smoke. 
LAFORGE: Smoke? Why smoke? 
DATA: I cannot explain it. It is not an image I saw during my vision. 
LAFORGE: Well, you have the smoke coming out of a bucket of water.
Blacksmiths used to use water to cool the metal. Maybe that's why you
painted it. 
DATA: Perhaps. After I painted the smoke, it then occurred to me to
paint a bird's wing. I then drew an entire bird. A flock of birds
flying in formation. An individual feather. If the image of a bird is
related to my vision, I do not understand how. I am left with more of a
mystery than ever. Geordi, I would like to recreate the experiment
which caused my initial shut down. 
LAFORGE: What for? 
DATA: I do not know how much longer my vision would have continued had
I not been reactivated. 
LAFORGE: Data, that plasma shock almost fused your neural net. I don't
think it's such a good idea to try that again. 
DATA: I am aware of the risks involved. But I can think of no other way
to investigate my experience. Will you help? 
LAFORGE: Yeah. Yeah, sure. I'll go find Doctor Bashir. 
DATA: I will prepare the power transfer.

