BASHIR SHREK DATA LAFORGE WORF

[Engineering]

(Geordi is doing something to the inside of Data's
head when he wakes up) 
BASHIR: Data, are you all right? 
DATA: I believe so. What has happened? 
LAFORGE: A plasma shock overloaded your positronic net. You were down a
good thirty seconds. 
DATA: That cannot be possible. I have a memory record for that period
of time. I can recall a series of images. I saw Doctor Soong. My
father. 
(after the adverts, tests are continuing) 
LAFORGE: Data, I can't find anything wrong with your positronic
subprocessors or your circuit controllers. No sign of any residual
energy fluctuation, cascade overload. 
DATA: My internal diagnostic indicates that my memory systems are
functioning within normal parameters. For the forty seven seconds that
I was inactive, there is no record of cognitive activity. 
LAFORGE: There's no doubt about it, Data. You were completely shut
down. Maybe you had some kind of random power fluctuation, caused you
to access one of your memory files. 
DATA: That cannot be. The image I saw was of Doctor Soong as a young
man. I did not encounter him until much later in his life. There
appears to be no rational explanation for my experience. 
LAFORGE: I'll take another look at the diagnostic log. In the meantime,
you'd better disconnect that device. 
BASHIR: Data, perhaps we're going about this the wrong way. 
DATA: How so? 
BASHIR: Well, maybe you had a dream or a hallucination. 
DATA: I am not capable of either of those functions. 
BASHIR: Yet you can't account for what happened today, can you? 
DATA: At present, I cannot. 
BASHIR: Well maybe you should approach this from a more human
standpoint. You're right that machines can't have hallucinations, but
then again, most machines can't grow hair.

[Ten Forward]

(Data is about to speak, then changes his mind) 
WORF: Wait. What is it, Commander? 
DATA: I am sorry to bother you, but I have a question of a personal
nature. Do you have a moment? 
WORF: A moment. 
DATA: I have heard you mention that you once experienced a vision. 
WORF: Yes. When I was young my adoptive parents arranged for me to
partake in the Rite of MajQa. 
DATA: I understand it involves deep meditation in the lava caves of
No'Mat. That prolonged exposure to the heat induces a hallucinatory
effect. 
WORF: Why are you asking me about this? 
DATA: I have recently had an unusual experience, which might be
described as a vision. 
WORF: What happened? 
DATA: An accident in Engineering shut down my cognitive functions for a
short period of time, yet I seemed to remain conscious. I saw my
father. 
WORF: You are very fortunate. That is a powerful vision. 
DATA: If it was a vision, I do not know how to proceed. 
WORF: You must find its meaning. If it has anything to do with your
father, you must learn all you can about it. In the Klingon MajQa
ritual, there is nothing more important than receiving a revelation
about your father. Your father is part of you, always. Learning about
him teaches you about yourself. That is why no matter where he is or
what he has done, you must find him. 
DATA: But I am not looking for my father. 
WORF: Yes, of course. Do not stop until you have the answer. 
DATA: Thank you, Worf.

[Promenade]

(Morn is in conversation with a blue-skinned woman
when Worf spots Shrek on the upper level) 
SHREK: Lieutenant Worf. You have reconsidered. 
WORF: Yes. I wish to go to the Romulan prison camp. 
SHREK: Excellent. I can provide you with the coordinates. 
WORF: No. You will take me there. 
SHREK: No, it's not possible. I have no means of transportation. 
WORF: I checked the station records. You have a vessel that is capable
of warp speed. 
SHREK: I, I do not have the time. I have other business. 
(Worf dangles Shrek over the railing) 
WORF: What is the real reason you do not wish to take me? Is it because
what you have told me is not true? 
SHREK: No. The camp is located on the edge of Romulan space. It is a
dangerous journey. 
WORF: Dangerous? It would be more dangerous for you to refuse. 
SHREK: Very well. But I will require full payment in advance. 
WORF: No. No, I will pay you after. 
SHREK: But 
(Worf leans him further over the railing) 
SHREK: Yes, yes, of course. After. 
WORF: If you are lying, if there is no prison camp, I will kill you.

