BASHIR DATA LAFORGE

[Engineering]

DATA: If we transfer twenty megajoules of energy
from the dilithium chamber into the plasma inputs, it should be
sufficient to activate the device. 
LAFORGE: It's worth a try. You two can begin by connecting the coil to
the chamber. I'll configure the energy transfer. 
BASHIR: Right. Data, can I ask you a personal question? 
DATA: Certainly. 
BASHIR: Does your hair grow? 
DATA: I can control the rate of my follicle replenishment. However, I
have not yet had a reason to modify the length of my hair. Why do you
ask? 
BASHIR: Just curious. 
DATA: Power conduits are ready. Is something wrong, Doctor? 
BASHIR: You're breathing. 
DATA: Yes. I do have a functional respiration system. However, its
purpose is to maintain thermal control of my internal systems. I am, in
fact, capable of functioning for extended periods in a vacuum. 
BASHIR: And you have a pulse. 
DATA: My circulatory system not only produces bio-chemical lubricants,
it regulates micro-hydraulic power. Most people are interested in my
extraordinary abilities. How fast I can compute, my memory capacity,
how long I will live. No one has ever asked me if my hair will grow, or
noticed that I can breathe. 
BASHIR: Your creator went to a lot of trouble to make you seem human. I
find that fascinating. 
LAFORGE: Okay, I think we're ready to begin the transfer. 
DATA: Power connections are complete. 
BASHIR: I'll monitor the coil's transfer rate. Will you keep an eye on
the transient power response? 
DATA: Of course. We are ready, Geordi. 
LAFORGE: Okay. Initiating energy transfer. 
(an orange light appears between the two sections of the device)
BASHIR: Power levels are holding steady. 
DATA: Transient response is normal. 
BASHIR: Hold on. I'm picking up a power surge. Reduce the transfer
rate. 
LAFORGE: Reducing rate by twenty percent. 
(a crackle of energy lances out and hits Data. He falls back, rigid) 
LAFORGE: What happened? 
BASHIR: The power connections blew. It sent out some kind of plasma
shock. 
LAFORGE: His synaptic energy is dropping. 
[Corridor]

(Data is having a vision. He follows the sound of
metal on metal to discover a young Noonian Soong pounding on an anvil
with a hammer.)

[Engineering]

(Geordi is doing something to the inside of Data's
head when he wakes up) 
BASHIR: Data, are you all right? 
DATA: I believe so. What has happened? 
LAFORGE: A plasma shock overloaded your positronic net. You were down a
good thirty seconds. 
DATA: That cannot be possible. I have a memory record for that period
of time. I can recall a series of images. I saw Doctor Soong. My
father. 
(after the adverts, tests are continuing) 
LAFORGE: Data, I can't find anything wrong with your positronic
subprocessors or your circuit controllers. No sign of any residual
energy fluctuation, cascade overload. 
DATA: My internal diagnostic indicates that my memory systems are
functioning within normal parameters. For the forty seven seconds that
I was inactive, there is no record of cognitive activity. 
LAFORGE: There's no doubt about it, Data. You were completely shut
down. Maybe you had some kind of random power fluctuation, caused you
to access one of your memory files. 
DATA: That cannot be. The image I saw was of Doctor Soong as a young
man. I did not encounter him until much later in his life. There
appears to be no rational explanation for my experience. 
LAFORGE: I'll take another look at the diagnostic log. In the meantime,
you'd better disconnect that device. 
BASHIR: Data, perhaps we're going about this the wrong way. 
DATA: How so? 
BASHIR: Well, maybe you had a dream or a hallucination. 
DATA: I am not capable of either of those functions. 
BASHIR: Yet you can't account for what happened today, can you? 
DATA: At present, I cannot. 
BASHIR: Well maybe you should approach this from a more human
standpoint. You're right that machines can't have hallucinations, but
then again, most machines can't grow hair.

