LKOR RIKER WORF PICARD TOQ GIRAL BAEL TOKATH

[Bridge]

RIKER: Still no sign of them on long range
scanners. 
PICARD: Contact DS9. Find out what they know about this Yridian trader.

RIKER: Hopefully he filed a flight plan before he left the station. 
PICARD: That's the only chance we have of finding Worf. 
[Meeting hall]

TOKATH: We haven't had to use one of these for a
long time. It implants a small boridium pellet under the skin. (he
injects Worf) We can
use its energy signature to track you. 
L'KOR: In time, you will grow accustomed to life here. 
WORF: Never. 
TOKATH: He is one of yours. Deal with him however you like. But I warn
you, if he becomes a disruption, I will not be so tolerant. 
L'KOR: Toq. You guard him. He is free to move around inside the
compound. But make certain he does not cause trouble. 
[Compound]

(Worf does his martial art routine) 
BA'EL: What are you doing? 
WORF: This is the mok'bara. The form clears the mind and centres the
body. 
(Ba'el tries to copy him) 
WORF: No. Like this. First you must learn to breathe. Stand tall. As
tall as you can. Now, take a wider stance. 
TOQ: You must stop. 
(Worf throws the boy over his shoulder) 
WORF: These forms are the basis for Klingon combat. You would be wise
to learn them. I will teach you. Join us. 
TOQ: We'll see what L'Kor thinks of this. 
[Ba'el's family's quarters]

BA'EL: Mother? She's not here. Come in. This is
what I wanted to show you. 
(She opens a chest. It contains Klingon armour amongst other items) 
BA'EL: I don't know why, but I'm not supposed to look at these things.
They're Klingon, aren't they? 
WORF: Yes. 
BA'EL: I thought you might be able to tell me about them. 
WORF: This is a warrior's armour. And this is a d'k tahg. (a knife) It
should not be allowed to rust like this. 
(Ba'el has taken a necklace) 
BA'EL: Isn't it beautiful? 
WORF: That is a jinaq. It is given to a daughter who has come of age,
old enough to take a mate. 
GI'RAL: Ba'el! 
BA'EL: Mother. 
GI'RAL: Take that off at once. 
WORF: Why is she forbidden to know what these things are? 
GI'RAL: They are not needed here. Go!

