ALL WORF GI'RAL TOQ L'KOR BA'EL TOKATH
boy later knowledge song romulans truth tuhmoh bagh man

[Jungle]

(Toq is watching Worf more than where he is going) 
WORF: He is there. The wind has shifted. We must wait. 
TOQ: Why? We're so close. 
WORF: Never approach your prey from upwind. The breeze will carry your
scent. The wind is shifting again. 
TOQ: I can't smell anything. 
WORF: He is there. 
TOQ: How can you? Yes. I can smell it. 
WORF: Remember the scent. More than anything else, it will guide you. 
TOQ: It is strong. I cannot believe I couldn't smell it before. 
WORF: Let it work its way into your blood. 
TOQ: I can feel my heart pounding. 
WORF: Yes. This is the moment where life and death meet. This is what
we are. Warriors. 
TOQ: I was never taught that. 
WORF: There is much you were never taught.

[Meeting hall]

(At the communal evening meal) 
TOKATH: Aren't you hungry, L'Kor? Or are you upset because your
prisoner has not returned? 
L'KOR: I should not have sent the boy with him. If he has been hurt 
TOKATH: Don't worry, my friend. They'll come back. After all, a warrior
keeps his word. Isn't that so? 
BA'EL: Father if I wanted to visit Romulus, or the Klingon Home world,
would I be allowed to go? 
(Toq enters carrying a dead quadruped, skinned and gutted) 
TOQ: Ka'la! Tonight, we eat well. 
TOKATH: Get that off my table. 
TOQ: You do not kill an animal unless you intend to eat it. 
TOKATH: Get rid of it. 
TOQ: I intend to, Tokath. But not until it's cooked. Today I learned
the ritual hunt. But that is not all I learned. I discovered that
warrior's blood runs in my veins. I do not know how or why, but we have
forgotten ourselves. Our stories are not told, our songs are not sung.
Tonight, as we came home, we sang a song of victory. A song known only
to me as a lullaby. But it is a warrior's song. Bagh Da tuHmoh. Fire
streaks the heavens. ChojaH Duh rHo. Battle has begun. Bagh Da tuHmoh.
ChojaH Duh rHo. ylja'Qo' ylja'Qo' ylja'Qo. 
(others join in and I cannot be bothered to try and transcribe it all.)

TOKATH: Ba'el. 
ALL: Ylja'Qo ylja'Qo! ylja'Qo!! 
(later, when the rest of the people have left) 
TOKATH: Well, Worf, you've had quite an effect on the young people. 
WORF: I have done nothing more than show them what they are. 
TOKATH: No. You have shown them what you want them to be. Tell me this.
Do you know of any place, any time in history, when Klingons and
Romulans have lived together in peace? We have despised each other,
fought each other, for centuries. Except here, on this remote planet,
Romulans and Klingons live together in harmony. No government, no
leader, has ever done what I have done here. 
WORF: And what about Toq? I saw what happened to him when he caught the
scent of his prey on the wind. For the first time in his life, he felt
powerful, and that is what he has been denied living here. And that is
what you have tried to take away from him. Now you may be content to
sit here in the jungle and wither to old age, but Toq and the others
have tasted what it is to feel truly alive, and they will not give that
up now. 
TOKATH: Enough of this. We could talk all night and not convince each
other. I offer you a choice. Live with us as one of us 
WORF: Or? 
TOKATH: Or I will have you put to death. 
WORF: Then that is what you will have to do. 
TOKATH: Worf, consider this carefully. 
WORF: That death will be honourable. The young people will see what it
is to die as a Klingon.

[Worf's room] 
(Worf is going through the mok'bara when there is a
knock on the door) 
WORF: Enter. 
BA'EL: (to the guard) Thank you. I will remove the tracking device.
Then you can go over the wall and hide in the jungle. 
WORF: Why are you doing this? 
BA'EL: My father is wrong. No matter how I might feel about you, you
don't deserve to die. 
WORF: I am not going to run away, Ba'el. 
BA'EL: They will kill you. 
WORF: Yes. But they will not defeat me. 
BA'EL: I don't understand you. 
WORF: A Klingon does not run away from his battles. 
BA'EL: Is that really the lesson you want us to learn? You've taught us
a great deal, awakened something in us that we never knew existed, but
I don't understand what we can learn from your death. 
WORF: Then you do not yet understand what it is to be Klingon. 
BA'EL: Worf, in spite of everything that's happened, I still sense that
you care for me. Am I wrong? You talk so much about being a warrior,
about honour and death. Is it so hard to speak of love? Worf, please. 
WORF: I would not have thought it possible to love a Romulan. 
BA'EL: But you do? 
WORF: Yes. 
BA'EL: Well if you've come that far, can't you take it one more step?
Can't you stay here with us? With me? 
WORF: If there were a way, I would take you away with me. 
BA'EL: If there is anything that I've learned from you, from your
reaction to me, it's that I have no place out there. Other Klingons
will not accept me for what I am. 
WORF: And if I stay here, these Klingons will not accept me for what I
am. 
BA'EL: Why did you come here? We were so happy. We didn't know there
was anything missing in our lives. 
WORF: Ba'el. 
(they kiss) 
BA'EL: Goodbye, Worf.

[Compound]

(Worf looks everyone in the eye then stands in
front of the wall for the firing squad.) 
TOKATH: I know that there are those among you who may question what I'm
about to do. And you would not be wrong to do so. I have questioned
myself. I have spent the night considering my decision, challenging
myself to justify whether it is right. And I have reached the
conclusion that it is absolutely necessary to put this man to death.
What we have built together would be destroyed by this man. And I
cannot allow that to happen. I give you one last chance to accept our
way of life. 
WORF: Those are eloquent word, Tokath, but the truth is, I am being
executed because I brought something dangerous to your young people.
Knowledge. Knowledge of their origins. Knowledge of the real reasons
you are here in this camp. The truth is a threat to you. 
TOKATH: Enough. Stand ready. Raise your weapons. 
BA'EL: Father. 
TOQ: Stop this! 
(Toq is wearing the old armour.) 
TOQ: If you kill him, you will have to kill me. 
TOKATH: Step aside, Toq. 
TOQ: Worf would rather die than accept this way of life. And so would
I. I want to leave, as do many others. You will have to kill us to keep
us here. 
WORF: You see, Tokath? It is already too late. 
TOKATH: I am warning you. Move aside, now. 
(Toq holds his ground) 
TOKATH: Stand ready. 
L'KOR: Toq. Move away. 
TOKATH: Take aim. 
(L'Kor goes and stands with Toq and Worf. Tokath draws his own weapon.
Other young people join the group. Finally Ba'el stands with Worf.) 
TOKATH: Ba'el. 
GI'RAL: Tokath. Long ago, when your captives asked to stay here, our
hope was to avoid dishonouring our children on the Home World. But
perhaps, over the years, we lost sight of our children that we raised
here. This is our prison. It should not be theirs. 
WORF: Years ago, your parents made a great sacrifice for the sake of
their families. Today, they do so again. For that, we must honour them.
You must promise them never reveal to their secret. No one must know of
this place. 
TOQ: A supply ship's due in a few days. They will take us. When they
arrive, Tokath will explain it to them. Then we will start a new life. 
Captain's log, supplemental. Our search for
Lieutenant Worf was cut short when we
received a cryptic message from him requesting a rendezvous with a
Romulan vessel. He has informed us we will be taking on passengers.

