BOY ALL WORF TOQ L'KOR BA'EL TOKATH
communal lived remember song romulans pounding tuhmoh bagh open

[Compound]

(a pair of metal staves are balanced across
uprights.) 
BOY: Come on, Toq. 
(Toq rolls a hoop and knocks the staves off) 
BOY: Who's next? Okay? Try again. 
(Worf walks over and pulls an upright out of the ground. As Toq rolls
the hoop, Worf throws the stave through it.) 
WORF: Ka'la! 
TOQ: That is not how you play this game. 
WORF: The qa'vak is not a game. It hones the skills of the hunt. 
TOQ: The hunt? We have replicators here. 
WORF: Klingons do not hunt because they need food. The hunt is a ritual
that reminds us of where we come from. 
TOQ: I know where I came from. Right here. 
WORF: It is a difficult skill to master. Perhaps you are too young. 
TOQ: Throw it. 
(so of course Toq takes the stave and gestures another boy to roll the
hoop. He misses)
WORF: Your arm is strong, but you need practice. Hold your other arm
like this and aim along it. Roll. 
(this time Toq does it right) 
WORF: You learn quickly. Perhaps it is time to put your skills to the
test. 
TOQ: What do you mean? 
WORF: Come. I will take you on the hunt. 
TOQ: You Are not allowed to leave the compound. They won't allow it. 
WORF: I think they will.

[Meeting hall]

TOKATH: Hunting? Have you lost your mind? 
WORF: The boy can come with me. I cannot sit in the compound like an
old man. I must practice my skills. 
L'KOR: We can't let you out. You've already tried to escape once. 
WORF: I give you my word as a warrior. I will not try to escape. 
TOKATH: Leave us. We have work to do. 
L'KOR: Tokath. He gave his word. 
TOKATH: Are you seriously suggesting that we open the gates and let him
wander free, with only a boy as his guard? 
L'KOR: Twenty three years ago I gave you my word. In all this time,
have I ever broken it? 
TOKATH: I told you he was yours to deal with. If you want to take this
risk, the responsibility is yours. 
L'KOR: You will go with him. Take a weapon. If he breaks his word and
tries to escape, kill him.

[Jungle]

(Toq is watching Worf more than where he is going) 
WORF: He is there. The wind has shifted. We must wait. 
TOQ: Why? We're so close. 
WORF: Never approach your prey from upwind. The breeze will carry your
scent. The wind is shifting again. 
TOQ: I can't smell anything. 
WORF: He is there. 
TOQ: How can you? Yes. I can smell it. 
WORF: Remember the scent. More than anything else, it will guide you. 
TOQ: It is strong. I cannot believe I couldn't smell it before. 
WORF: Let it work its way into your blood. 
TOQ: I can feel my heart pounding. 
WORF: Yes. This is the moment where life and death meet. This is what
we are. Warriors. 
TOQ: I was never taught that. 
WORF: There is much you were never taught.

[Meeting hall]

(At the communal evening meal) 
TOKATH: Aren't you hungry, L'Kor? Or are you upset because your
prisoner has not returned? 
L'KOR: I should not have sent the boy with him. If he has been hurt 
TOKATH: Don't worry, my friend. They'll come back. After all, a warrior
keeps his word. Isn't that so? 
BA'EL: Father if I wanted to visit Romulus, or the Klingon Home world,
would I be allowed to go? 
(Toq enters carrying a dead quadruped, skinned and gutted) 
TOQ: Ka'la! Tonight, we eat well. 
TOKATH: Get that off my table. 
TOQ: You do not kill an animal unless you intend to eat it. 
TOKATH: Get rid of it. 
TOQ: I intend to, Tokath. But not until it's cooked. Today I learned
the ritual hunt. But that is not all I learned. I discovered that
warrior's blood runs in my veins. I do not know how or why, but we have
forgotten ourselves. Our stories are not told, our songs are not sung.
Tonight, as we came home, we sang a song of victory. A song known only
to me as a lullaby. But it is a warrior's song. Bagh Da tuHmoh. Fire
streaks the heavens. ChojaH Duh rHo. Battle has begun. Bagh Da tuHmoh.
ChojaH Duh rHo. ylja'Qo' ylja'Qo' ylja'Qo. 
(others join in and I cannot be bothered to try and transcribe it all.)

TOKATH: Ba'el. 
ALL: Ylja'Qo ylja'Qo! ylja'Qo!! 
(later, when the rest of the people have left) 
TOKATH: Well, Worf, you've had quite an effect on the young people. 
WORF: I have done nothing more than show them what they are. 
TOKATH: No. You have shown them what you want them to be. Tell me this.
Do you know of any place, any time in history, when Klingons and
Romulans have lived together in peace? We have despised each other,
fought each other, for centuries. Except here, on this remote planet,
Romulans and Klingons live together in harmony. No government, no
leader, has ever done what I have done here. 
WORF: And what about Toq? I saw what happened to him when he caught the
scent of his prey on the wind. For the first time in his life, he felt
powerful, and that is what he has been denied living here. And that is
what you have tried to take away from him. Now you may be content to
sit here in the jungle and wither to old age, but Toq and the others
have tasted what it is to feel truly alive, and they will not give that
up now. 
TOKATH: Enough of this. We could talk all night and not convince each
other. I offer you a choice. Live with us as one of us 
WORF: Or? 
TOKATH: Or I will have you put to death. 
WORF: Then that is what you will have to do. 
TOKATH: Worf, consider this carefully. 
WORF: That death will be honourable. The young people will see what it
is to die as a Klingon.

