RIKER HUTCH LAFORGE WAITER PICARD KELSEY DEVOR COMPUTER ORTON DATA
kilometres seven colour understanding pel tim chance powers compliment

[Corridor]

(Picard is in riding gear and carrying his saddle) 
COMPUTER: Auto-shutdown sequence in progress. Defensive systems
offline. Baryon sweep begins in eight minutes. 
(Picard spots an open panel with the fibre-optic cable cut and
dangling) 
DEVOR: What are you doing? 
(everyone, say hi! to Tim Russ, not yet a Vulcan) 
PICARD: Someone left this ODN junction box open. I thought your crew
was supposed to be off the ship once the field diverters were in place.

DEVOR: The diverters have to be synchronised. I was laser bonding a
backup link. 
PICARD: I see. Well, I'd better let you finish up so you can get off
the ship. 
DEVOR: Excuse me a minute. 
(Devor makes to attack Picard with the laser, so he throws the saddle
at him. They wrestle then Picard neck-pinches him
unconscious) 
COMPUTER: Auto-shutdown sequence in progress. Primary power offline in
one minute. 
(Picard runs) 
(in another corridor there are voices off. Picard hides) 
KELSEY: Get Pomet started on it right away. 
COMPUTER: Primary power offline in thirty seconds.

[Transporter room]

COMPUTER: Final warning. Primary power offline in
ten seconds. 
(Picard sets the transporter controls, the baryon sweep powers up, and
everything powers down just as he gets onto the transporter pad) 
[Arkaria base]

DATA: Hmm. Yes. I find it fascinating that your
family chose to drop the prefix Pel from your surname. It was my
understanding that Pel Orton is a more noble appellation on Arkaria
than simply Orton. 
ORTON: Yes. 
DATA: Perhaps the recent Arkarian trend toward a more egalitarian
society is partly responsible, eh? 
ORTON: Perhaps. 
HUTCH: The crew of the Magellan actually put on a talent show here.
Captain Conklin did a poetry reading, if you can imagine that. 
RIKER: I'm trying to. 
HUTCH: Did I ever tell you how I came to be stationed here? It's a
fascinating story. I was serving on Admiral Mitchell's staff on
Starbase ninety seven. Awful place, by the way. 
RIKER: Have you met our Commander Data? 
DATA: As a matter of fact, I find it oddly amusing. 
HUTCH: No, I don't think so. 
RIKER: I'll introduce you. 
DATA: There are several cultures in this sector with extremely similar
etymological histories. For example 
RIKER: Mister Data, I don't know if you've had a chance to meet our
host, Commander Hutchinson. Call him Hutch. Lieutenant Commander Data,
our second officer. 
HUTCH: A pleasure. 
DATA: The pleasure is mine, Hutch. I have been meaning to compliment
you on your choice of colours here. 
HUTCH: Oh, you really think so? It wasn't easy making a final decision,
let me tell you. 
DATA: I can well imagine. The light in this room would make colour
selection exceptionally problematic. 
HUTCH: Precisely. 
ORTON: Thank you. 
RIKER: You're welcome. I'm not sure which one to feel sorry for. 
WAITER: Mister Orton? 
ORTON: You'll excuse me, Commander. 
RIKER: Geordi, what happened to the Captain? 
LAFORGE: Oh, he went back to the ship to get his saddle. 
RIKER: His saddle? 
LAFORGE: Any serious rider would have his own saddle. 
RIKER: Oh. 
LAFORGE: Probably he went right to the stables. I bet he's ten
kilometres from here already. 
RIKER: Lucky him. Thank you.

