RIKER HUTCH NEIL KIROS PICARD KELSEY LAFORGE TROI DEVOR COMPUTER CRUSHER DATA MAN

[Bridge]

(Picard picks up a sort of attach case and walks
onto the now deserted Bridge. He takes a long lingering look around
then gets into the turbolift as workers enter from the other side) 
KELSEY: (human woman) Tell Arkaria base that we're almost finished
here. 
NEIL: (human man) We're going to need two more conduits. 
KIROS: (alien woman) I need to run a diagnostic on the diverter. 
DEVOR: (dark human man) Get the diverter aligned so that we can begin
the isolation procedure. 
NEIL: Where's the ODN interface?

[Arkaria base]

(the reception includes a buffet table and waiters
serving drinks. Data is prowling, observing a shorter, balding man in
action) 
HUTCH: Beverly. Lovely as ever. How do you manage it? 
CRUSHER: It's good to see you again. 
HUTCH: It's been far too long. What is it, four years? Now I want to
hear everything that happened after you left Starfleet Medical. And I
have so much to tell you. Oh, that must be Commander Riker. Excuse me. 
CRUSHER: Of course. 
(the person talking to Riker escapes) 
MAN: Pardon me. 
HUTCH: You must be Will Riker. 
RIKER: I must be. 
HUTCH: Calvin Hutchinson. Call me Hutch. Calvin, awful name, I've never
forgiven my parents. As soon as I saw you, I knew you had to be the
Enterprise's First Officer. 
RIKER: Oh? 
HUTCH: Of course. Your reputation proceeds you. Flashing blue eyes,
square jaw. Quite the ladies man I hear. Now don't be modest, Will. May
I call you Will? 
(Data is imitating Hutch by now) 
RIKER: Sure. 
HUTCH: I also hear that you're a musician. I certainly hope you'll play
something for us. It's not often we get to entertain the command crew
of the flagship. Oh, and speaking of command. Hello, Captain Picard. 
PICARD: Commander. 
HUTCH: I was just telling your First Officer what a real pleasure it is
to have all of you here. So, how are you anyway? 
PICARD: Very well, thank you. 
(our focus moves from Hutch to Data) 
DATA: It is very good to see you both again. Beverly. May I call you
Beverly? Beverly, have you noticed that the mean temperature here on
Arkaria is slightly higher normal for human comfort levels? I have
found that humans prefer a body temperature of twenty one degrees
Celsius in order to operate most efficiently. However, there are
several cultures who actually prefer that their body temperature is
identical to the temperature of the room in which they are standing.
The Sheliak, for example. 
HUTCH: I'm telling you, you have never seen anything like this. There
were thousands of these creatures. The whole northern sky turned dark.
I 
PICARD: Oh, er, Geordi, Deanna. I don't think you've met our host. This
is Lieutenant Commander Geordi La Forge, Counsellor Deanna Troi. This
is Commander Hutchinson. 
HUTCH: Oh, please, call me Hutch. 
TROI: Hello. 
HUTCH: I was just telling your captain about some of the fascinating
sights here on Arkaria. Either of you interested in ornithology? 
TROI: Er, well. 
HUTCH: The mating habits of the Arkarian horn fowl are quite
interesting. If the weather were better, we could take horses to the
southern promontory and visit the nesting grounds. 
PICARD: Horses? 
HUTCH: Yes. We have a network of trails through the plains.
Unfortunately, it's not very pleasant right now. Cold, muddy. Not a
soul for kilometres. 
PICARD: Sounds perfect. Mister La Forge, how long before the baryon
sweep begins on the Enterprise? 
LAFORGE: About twenty five minutes, sir. 
PICARD: Then I have enough time to back to the ship and get my saddle. 
TROI: Your saddle? 
PICARD: Yes. A saddle is a very personal thing. It has to be broken in,
used, cared for. 
LAFORGE: You keep a saddle on board the Enterprise? 
PICARD: Oh yes, yes. I never know when I'll have the opportunity to
ride. 
TROI: I see. 
PICARD: It's perfectly normal. Most serious riders do have their own
saddles. 
TROI: Of course. 
HUTCH: Absolutely. 
PICARD: Well, if you'll excuse me. 
(Picard leaves, quickly) 
HUTCH: Amazing man. You know, he reminds me of another officer I knew
years ago. A Captain Edwell. Now he was fascinating. Born on Gaspar
Seven, but you wouldn't know it from the way he looked. 
[Corridor]

(Picard is in riding gear and carrying his saddle) 
COMPUTER: Auto-shutdown sequence in progress. Defensive systems
offline. Baryon sweep begins in eight minutes. 
(Picard spots an open panel with the fibre-optic cable cut and
dangling) 
DEVOR: What are you doing? 
(everyone, say hi! to Tim Russ, not yet a Vulcan) 
PICARD: Someone left this ODN junction box open. I thought your crew
was supposed to be off the ship once the field diverters were in place.

DEVOR: The diverters have to be synchronised. I was laser bonding a
backup link. 
PICARD: I see. Well, I'd better let you finish up so you can get off
the ship. 
DEVOR: Excuse me a minute. 
(Devor makes to attack Picard with the laser, so he throws the saddle
at him. They wrestle then Picard neck-pinches him
unconscious) 
COMPUTER: Auto-shutdown sequence in progress. Primary power offline in
one minute. 
(Picard runs) 
(in another corridor there are voices off. Picard hides) 
KELSEY: Get Pomet started on it right away. 
COMPUTER: Primary power offline in thirty seconds.

