TROI HUTCH NEIL LAFORGE WAITER PICARD KELSEY RIKER POMET SATLER ORTON CRUSHER DATA KIROS

[Arkaria base]

DATA: Yes, but Tyrellian laser art is very similar
in both form and composition. 
HUTCH: Of course. You know, funny you should mention that. I used to be
stationed on Tyrellia. 
DATA: Really? Did you know that there are currently five Tyrellians
serving aboard the Enterprise. 
HUTCH: That's fascinating. Not too many people know this, but Tyrellia
is one of only three known inhabited worlds without a magnetic pole. 
DATA: I was aware of that. But are you aware that Tyrellia is one of
seven known planets with no atmosphere whatsoever. 
HUTCH: Really? 
TROI: They're still at it. 
RIKER: Non-stop. I have to admit it has a certain strange fascination.
How long can two people talk about nothing? 
(Geordi is helping himself to the buffet when his visor picks up
something.) 
WAITER: Is something wrong? 
LAFORGE: I don't know. I was just getting some very strange energy
readings from your table here. 
WAITER: I'm sure it's nothing serious. Perhaps the heating element
under the table is malfunctioning. 
LAFORGE: Maybe I should take a look at it for you. 
ORTON: I'm sure we can handle this, whatever it is, Commander. There's
no need to concern yourself. 
LAFORGE: Well, maybe I should look at the heating element. I mean, in
case it 
ORTON: It's all right. Please, don't worry. 
RIKER: What was all that about? 
ORTON: I assure you it's all right. We'll look into it. You don't have
to concern yourself. 
WAITER: Orton, now! 
(Orton knocks Geordi over. The waiter gets a rifle from under the table
and fires it at Geordi, hitting him square in the chest. Orton gets a
gun for himself.) 
HUTCH: What is going on? 
(Orton shoots him) 
ORTON: Stay right where you are.

[Engineering]

SATLER: (a human male) Reduce the plasma pressure
to zero point six percent nominal. 
POMET: (an alien male) Zero point six. 
SATLER: How does the conduit look? 
POMET: It's clear. 
SATLER: All right. The main plasma flow has been shunted to the aft
conduit. We're ready here. 
NEIL: Okay. That should do it. I think. 
KELSEY: (did I mention she's a redhead?) Be sure, Neil. 
NEIL: Yes. Yes, that does it. All right. Transfer five hundred
milligrams from the reserve system to the engine core. 
(Satler does it) 
NEIL: Perfect. 
KELSEY: Adequate. Disable the containment overrides and get the
interlocks off the magnetic seal. Pomet, prepare the transport
assembly. Keep watching the power flow. It might 
(Picard is brought in.) 
KELSEY: Keep working. Where did he come from? 
KIROS: I found him on deck seven. 
KELSEY: Who are you? 
PICARD: My name is Mot. I'm the barber. 
KELSEY: The barber? What the hell are you doing here? Everyone was
supposed to be evacuated to the surface. 
PICARD: Yes, I know. But I wanted to go riding, but I didn't have my
saddle, so I went back to get it and 
KELSEY: Your saddle? 
PICARD: Yes, that's right. It's on deck seven. I left it in the
corridor. And then the power went out and I got lost 
KELSEY: All right, all right, shut up. Shut up! Any sign of Devor? 
KIROS: No. 
KELSEY: Satler. Get down here and keep an eye on our barber. All right,
go see if you can find Devor. Make sure nothing's wrong. 
(Kiros leaves) 
SATLER: Sit down. 
PICARD: All right. Just don't point that thing at me. 
SATLER: Just do what I tell you, and you won't have to worry. 
KELSEY: How long until you're ready? 
POMET: Forty, maybe fifty minutes. 
KELSEY: The baryon sweep hits this compartment in thirty minutes. 
POMET: The field diverter will protect us. 
KELSEY: It's not us I'm worried about, it's that storage unit. I want
the trilithium resin in there and secured before the sweep gets here. I
don't want to take any chances. 
POMET: Understood.

[Arkaria base]

(Hutch is covered in a purple curtain) 
TROI: They haven't tried to communicate with the outside. 
RIKER: No demands, no political statements, no theft. They must want
something. 
TROI: Orton is not as calm as he looks. He's very agitated and nervous,
as if something's gone wrong. 
DATA: It is possible that Geordi upset their timetable when he saw the
hidden weapons. 
RIKER: Orton may be improvising. Maybe he didn't plan to take us
hostage so early and now he doesn't know what to do. 
DATA: If they do not have a plan for this contingency, we may have the
initiative. 
RIKER: Maybe, but we need to figure out how to use it. How is he? 
CRUSHER: There's no permanent damage. I've adjusted the optical
transducer in his visor to block some of the pain receptors in his
brain. It's only partially effective. I need to get him to a medical
facility. 
RIKER: I doubt if they'll agree to that. But maybe if we tell them
Geordi's dying, they would give us access to a medical kit. We might be
able to use some of the tools to make a weapon. 
DATA: Perhaps we can use the visor as a weapon. If the optical
transducer were modified, we might be able to generate a hypersonic
pulse. 
CRUSHER: A hypersonic pulse would overload the audio receptors of
everyone in the room. It would cause immediate unconsciousness. 
RIKER: Can you make the adjustments on the visor by yourself? It'll
look suspicious if you're both working on it. 
CRUSHER: I'll try. I might need Geordi to help me through some of it. 
RIKER: All right. Be as casual as you can. Let us know when you're
ready.

