RIKER LAFORGE NELLA ENSIGN PICARD CRUSHER DATA
twice wall casualties study ensign person connect strong apparently

[Observation lounge]

LAFORGE: A fire storm can kick up winds of over two
hundred kilometres per hour and temperatures as high as three hundred
degrees C. 
CRUSHER: Incredible. What causes them? 
NELLA: They form when solar flare radiation reacts with high energy
plasma present in the planet's atmosphere. 
CRUSHER: Wasn't the outpost built to withstand the conditions? 
LAFORGE: It was, both reinforced and insulated. But this is no ordinary
storm. It's twice as strong as anything they've ever seen. The outpost
just won't withstand it. 
RIKER: We'll arrive about an hour before the storm gets there. It will
take at least two hours to evacuate all the colonists off the surface. 
NELLA: I led a team of geologists to study the plasma geyser on Melnos
Four. We cross-connected a few thermal deflector units to create a
protective shield against the heat. 
LAFORGE: A firewall. 
NELLA: Would something like that work here? 
LAFORGE: You know, it might. (goes to the wall monitor) The storm is
approaching the outpost from this direction. If we were to set up a
series of thermal
deflector units along the northern perimeter, we could create a fire
wall and deflect some of the heat. The insulation from the outpost
should be able to handle the rest. 
DATA: Thermal deflectors generate a field approximately four hundred
metres wide. We would need to cross-connect six units and align them so
the fields overlap. 
RIKER: How many people would it take to set that up? 
LAFORGE: Twelve. Two per team. Cross-connecting that many units will be
a little tricky. Once they're set up, we'll have to leave the units in
place and transport our people out. Nobody would be able survive very
long outside that structure. 
PICARD: Let's do it. 
RIKER: The storm is going to interfere with communications. Everything
will need to be coordinated from the surface. Mister Data, you will
coordinate the evacuation of the colonists. Doctor, they have nine
patients in the outpost infirmary. Your first priority will be to get
them to Sickbay. After that you will stay on board the Enterprise, be
ready to receive casualties. Marquez, you will take some people down
and track the storm. All the other teams will need to be kept apprised
of its heading. Commander, you're in charge of deploying the
deflectors. Let's go. 
PICARD: Commander Daren. About these thermal deflectors. 
(everyone else leaves) 
PICARD: There must be one of any number of people could coordinate
their deployment. 
NELLA: I assume Commander Riker chose me because I'm the best person
for the job. Didn't we agree not to let our relationship get in the way
of our work? I'll be all right.

[Corridor]

RIKER: Lieutenant Marquez has already set up on the
surface. Apparently the storm is still gaining speed. He's estimating 
[Transporter room]

RIKER: It'll hit the colony in less than fifty
minutes. Ensign, make sure you maintain a continuous transporter lock
on all away team personnel. We may have to pull them out in a hurry. 
ENSIGN: Yes, sir. 
RIKER: I don't want to take any unnecessary chances. If they get into
trouble, beam them up immediately. 
PICARD: Energise.

