NELLA RIKER CREWWOMAN PICARD

[Stellar cartography]

NELLA: Come in. 
PICARD: Nella. 
NELLA: Can I help you, sir? 
PICARD: I'm really very sorry about what happened in the turbolift.
When the crewmember walked in, I felt very self-conscious. It's going
to take a while for me to get used to the idea of crew seeing the two
of us together. 
NELLA: I understand. I'm glad you told me. For a minute there I thought
I'd misread you. One kiss and you're off to find somebody else. 
PICARD: I can assure you that I'm not given to casual relationships. (a
crewman enters) There is something that I want to tell you. But not
here. 
[Picard's quarters]

PICARD: Do you remember that folk melody I played
for you this morning? 
NELLA: Yes. 
PICARD: I learned it on a planet called Kataan. 
NELLA: Never heard of it. 
PICARD: No, I'm not surprised. Its sun went nova more than a thousand
years ago. 
NELLA: I don't understand. 
PICARD: The Enterprise encountered a probe that had been sent from the
planet before it was destroyed. It had scanned me and I lost
consciousness, and in the space of twenty five minutes I lived a
lifetime on that planet. I had a wife, and children, and a grandchild.
And it was absolutely real to me. When I awoke, all that I had left of
that life there was the flute that I had taught myself to play. 
NELLA: Why are you telling me this? 
PICARD: Because I want you to understand what my music means to me. And
what it means for me to be able to share it with someone. 
NELLA: Thank you. 
(another kiss, and they lean out of camera) 
[Corridor]

RIKER: Hello. 
CREWWOMAN: Sir. 
NELLA: Commander. I was hoping to talk to you about Ensign Cabot's
transfer. 
RIKER: Quantum Mechanics doesn't want to give him up. 
NELLA: But he wants to come to my department. 
RIKER: How do you know that? 
NELLA: I offered it to him. 
RIKER: Transfers are to be approved by me before any offers are made. 
NELLA: I'm sorry. We were just talking and 
RIKER: It's all right. But Cabot should stay where he is. 
NELLA: Commander, please, don't make that decision final. I realise I
shouldn't have made the offer, but he's perfect for the job. And
quantum mechanics is over staffed anyway. 
RIKER: Commander, do you realise the position you're putting me in? 
NELLA: Well, I think I'm just doing what any good department head would
do. Trying to build the best staff I can. 
RIKER: Look, I'll review the situation and let you know as soon as I
can.

