RIKER PICARD + COMPUTER PICARD COMPUTER NELLA MARQUEZ DATA
good star forget gently sciences shouldn expect works data

[Ready room]

PICARD: Computer, display the latest excavation
schematics on Landris Two. 
COMPUTER: Library computer is temporarily offline. 
PICARD: Explain. 
COMPUTER: Library systems have been allocated to Stellar Cartography. 
PICARD: Tea, Earl Grey. Hot. 
COMPUTER: Replicator systems are offline at the request of 
PICARD + COMPUTER: Stellar Cartography. 
PICARD: What could they possibly be doing down there? 

[Stellar cartography]

(the room is dark as Picard enters) 
NELLA: In or out, just close that door. And don't move. It'll take a
second for our eyes to re-adjust. Okay, levate to three point two,
Marquez. 
MARQUEZ: Now at three point two, Commander. 
NELLA: Good. Good we can do this. No, no, no, we're losing vertical
alignment. Compensate. Compensate! 
MARQUEZ: Compensating. 
NELLA: Gently. Gently, Marquez, don't bump it. No. No wait. Hit the.
Oh, forget it. Forget it. Lights. Whoever you are, you just ruined four
hours of work. 
PICARD: You might have taken the simple precaution of locking the door.

NELLA: It's three o'clock in the morning. Captain Picard. 
PICARD: I assume that you must be Lieutenant Commander Daren. 
NELLA: Yes, sir. I'm sorry. It's just we weren't expecting anybody to
be up at this hour. 
PICARD: Well, you're new on the Enterprise. You'll have to learn to
expect the unexpected. 
NELLA: That's why I put in for this assignment, sir. 
PICARD: Excellent. Now perhaps you can tell me what was so important
that it required depriving the Captain of his cup of Earl Grey? 
NELLA: Earl Grey? No wonder you can't sleep. Computer, bring
replicators back online and give me a cup of Daren herbal tea blend
number three, hot. You shouldn't be drinking a stimulant at this time
of night. I think you'll like this. 
(Picard tries it and pulls a face, but anyone who can drink hot
Bergamot shouldn't
criticise other blends) 
NELLA: I've programmed seven other blends into the replicator. You're
bound to like one of them. 
PICARD: I look forward to sampling them. 
NELLA: I'm sorry if the system blackouts we requested inconvenienced
you. We're taking very precise gravimetric readings. It wouldn't have
taken much to throw them off. 
PICARD: What were the readings for? 
NELLA: I'm trying to construct a mathematical model of an emerging star
system. If it works, we'll be able to predict the configuration of a
star system that won't be formed for another two million years. 
PICARD: A long time to wait to see if you're right. 
NELLA: I have a few things to do between now and then.

[Bridge]

RIKER: Captain, we'll be arriving at the Borgolis
Nebula in three hours. 
PICARD: Yes. I understand it has unusual radioactive emissions, and I'm
sure that Stellar Sciences will find it a most interesting study. 
RIKER: Commander Daren has already requested extra time on the main
sensor array. 
PICARD: Well, you have the Bridge, Number One. 
DATA: Captain, I would like to remind you of our concert this evening
in Ten Forward. We will perform Chopin's Trio in G Minor. 
PICARD: I'll be there.

