NELLA RIKER PICARD CREWWOMAN WORF [OC]
bridge log shall decision changed compromise storm stardate careful

[Corridor]

RIKER: Hello. 
CREWWOMAN: Sir. 
NELLA: Commander. I was hoping to talk to you about Ensign Cabot's
transfer. 
RIKER: Quantum Mechanics doesn't want to give him up. 
NELLA: But he wants to come to my department. 
RIKER: How do you know that? 
NELLA: I offered it to him. 
RIKER: Transfers are to be approved by me before any offers are made. 
NELLA: I'm sorry. We were just talking and 
RIKER: It's all right. But Cabot should stay where he is. 
NELLA: Commander, please, don't make that decision final. I realise I
shouldn't have made the offer, but he's perfect for the job. And
quantum mechanics is over staffed anyway. 
RIKER: Commander, do you realise the position you're putting me in? 
NELLA: Well, I think I'm just doing what any good department head would
do. Trying to build the best staff I can. 
RIKER: Look, I'll review the situation and let you know as soon as I
can.

[Ready room]

PICARD: Come. 
RIKER: May I have a minute? 
PICARD: Yes, of course. Come in, Number One. 
RIKER: It's about Lieutenant Commander Daren. As a department head, she
comes to me for systems allocation, personnel transfers, things like
that. I'm beginning to feel uncomfortable with her requests. 
PICARD: Because of her relationship with me? 
RIKER: Yes, sir. 
PICARD: Are her requests unusual? 
RIKER: No. 
PICARD: Would you say that she's just trying to do her job? 
RIKER: Yes, sir. 
PICARD: Then let her do it, and feel free to do yours. Ship's resources
are your responsibility. I've always had absolute confidence in your
judgment. 
RIKER: Thank you, sir.

[Picard's quarters]

(a romantic dinner) 
NELLA: I can't believe I'm going to get the chance to study the fire
storms on Bersallis. Apparently they're generated by particle emissions
from the Bersallin sun. They cause a cascade effect in the planet's
atmosphere that. Oh, I'm boring you. 
PICARD: No, no, no you're not. It's just that Commander Riker came to
talk to me this afternoon. About you. 
NELLA: About the personnel transfer? I thought he looked uncomfortable.
He thought I was asking for special treatment. (Picard nods) I was just
doing what I thought was best for my department. 
PICARD: That's what I told him. But we have to be careful. Obviously
it's easy for people to misunderstand. 
NELLA: I don't like the thought of having to second-guess people all
the time. If I have to worry about what people are thinking about me,
I'll be concentrating on the wrong thing, and I won't be as effective
an officer. 
PICARD: All I'm saying is that it's something we have to be aware of.
But you mustn't compromise yourself. You must do what you have to do.
Because if I find that my head of Stellar Sciences isn't being
effective, then I shall do what I must to do and I shall replace her. 
NELLA: Noted, sir. 
PICARD: Now, I think that we should just forget about this and enjoy
out evening. 
NELLA: What about that special dessert you promised me? 
PICARD: Right. Now this is something that I first tasted on Thelka
Four. 
WORF [OC]: Bridge to Captain. 
PICARD: Go ahead, Mister Worf. 
WORF [OC]: Bersallis Three reports that the storm has changed its speed
and heading. They are predicting it will hit the outpost within eight
hours, and are requesting evacuation. 
PICARD: I'm on my way.

Captain's log, stardate 46693.1. We have entered
the Bersallis star system and are making preparations to evacuate the
Federation outpost on the third planet.

