PICARD TROI NELLA

[Ready room]

PICARD: Sit down, Counsellor. I want to talk to you
about a matter of protocol. I know there are no Starfleet regulations
about a Captain becoming involved with a fellow officer, but 
TROI: You would like my opinion about you and Commander Daren. 
PICARD: It's that obvious? 
TROI: In a way that pleases people who care about your happiness, yes,
it is. 
PICARD: But I have to be concerned about more than my own happiness. 
TROI: And you think that your feelings toward Nella could change the
way you function as Captain. 
PICARD: Yes. Relationships with co-workers can be fraught with
consequences. 
TROI: That's true. But cutting yourself off from your feelings can
carry consequences that are just as serious. 
PICARD: You seem I've always believed that becoming involved with
someone under my command would compromise my objectivity. And yet. 
TROI: Captain, are you asking my permission? 
PICARD: If I were, would you give it? 
TROI: Yes.

[Stellar cartography]

NELLA: Come in. 
PICARD: Nella. 
NELLA: Can I help you, sir? 
PICARD: I'm really very sorry about what happened in the turbolift.
When the crewmember walked in, I felt very self-conscious. It's going
to take a while for me to get used to the idea of crew seeing the two
of us together. 
NELLA: I understand. I'm glad you told me. For a minute there I thought
I'd misread you. One kiss and you're off to find somebody else. 
PICARD: I can assure you that I'm not given to casual relationships. (a
crewman enters) There is something that I want to tell you. But not
here. 
[Picard's quarters]

PICARD: Do you remember that folk melody I played
for you this morning? 
NELLA: Yes. 
PICARD: I learned it on a planet called Kataan. 
NELLA: Never heard of it. 
PICARD: No, I'm not surprised. Its sun went nova more than a thousand
years ago. 
NELLA: I don't understand. 
PICARD: The Enterprise encountered a probe that had been sent from the
planet before it was destroyed. It had scanned me and I lost
consciousness, and in the space of twenty five minutes I lived a
lifetime on that planet. I had a wife, and children, and a grandchild.
And it was absolutely real to me. When I awoke, all that I had left of
that life there was the flute that I had taught myself to play. 
NELLA: Why are you telling me this? 
PICARD: Because I want you to understand what my music means to me. And
what it means for me to be able to share it with someone. 
NELLA: Thank you. 
(another kiss, and they lean out of camera) 
