RIKER PICARD (afterwards, at the bar) PICARD NELLA CRUSHER DATA
hoping practice forward sciences levels parents ask ship captain

[Picard's quarters]

(a shared meal) 
PICARD: And so the upshot is that we'll be close enough for you to slip
away for a few days and see Wesley. 
CRUSHER: Oh, that's wonderful. Thank you, Jean-Luc. This is delicious. What is it? 
PICARD: It's an herbal tea blend. I, er, found it in the replicator
files. Have you met any of the new crewmembers who came aboard at
Starbase two eighteen? 
CRUSHER: In fact, I have a new nurse, Beck. He's an obstetrics
specialist. 
PICARD: I met the new head of Stellar Sciences last night. Lieutenant
Commander Daren. 
CRUSHER: Yes. Nella Daren. She came into Sickbay for her physical last
week. I like her. Very forthright. 
PICARD: Did you know it is now possible to predict the configuration of
a star system which won't be formed for another two million years? 
CRUSHER: Really? No, I didn't. 
PICARD: It's really quite intriguing. The whole thing is made possible
by a complex mathematical construct based on fractal particle motion.
But that's only the foundation. The modeling itself is done by
gravimetric wave input. 
CRUSHER: I see. 
PICARD: Well, I know this is all pretty dry stuff. Stellar cartography
isn't everybody's cup of tea. 
CRUSHER: I'm sure it's really quite fascinating. 
PICARD: You know, we'd should be getting along to Ten Forward. We're
going to be late for the concert.

[Ten Forward]

(the raised area in front of the windows is the
stage. Data and a cellist enter, then the pianist, Nella. Troi picks up
Picard's emotions during the performance) 
(afterwards, at the bar) PICARD: Thank you. 
NELLA: Well done, Mister Data. Well done. 
PICARD: Commander, that was a remarkable performance. 
CRUSHER: You are very talented. 
NELLA: Thank you. 
DATA: I noticed that the applause this evening exceeded average decibel
levels. 
NELLA: I guess that means they enjoyed themselves. 
PICARD: I think that much was obvious. 
DATA: Excuse me. I have not yet congratulated Ensign Cheney. 
CRUSHER: I'll go with you. 
PICARD: Commander, you must have been playing since you were young. I
played the piano for a while when I was small, but I didn't put in the
practice you must have. 
NELLA: Practising was never my problem. In fact, my parents had to make
me go out and play. 
PICARD: I wanted to ask, during the second arpeggio in the first
movement, I noticed that you played an F minor chord instead of a
diminished D. 
NELLA: You're a musician. What's your instrument? We should play some
time. 
PICARD: No, no, no, I'm just an amateur. But your choice in that
arpeggio was delightful. Not at all what one would expect. 
NELLA: Well, Captain, now that I'm on your ship, maybe you should start
expecting the unexpected.

[Bridge]

(at the nebula) 
NELLA: Excuse me, sir. I was hoping that my people in Spectral Analysis
could have another few hours on the main sensor array? 
RIKER: I'm sorry, the array has already been allocated to Engineering.
They're running some warp field tests. 
NELLA: If we go offline now, we'll lose the gas flow pattern we've been
tracking. 
RIKER: I understand, but there are other departments waiting to use the
array. 
NELLA: We're at a critical juncture, sir. 
RIKER: Commander. I'll see what I can do to find you some more time
tomorrow. 
NELLA: Tomorrow? Tomorrow. Thank you, sir.

