RIKER LAFORGE PICARD NELLA WORF [OC] CRUSHER DATA
kilometres shall melnos geologists aware chance preparations insulation resources

[Ready room]

PICARD: Come. 
RIKER: May I have a minute? 
PICARD: Yes, of course. Come in, Number One. 
RIKER: It's about Lieutenant Commander Daren. As a department head, she
comes to me for systems allocation, personnel transfers, things like
that. I'm beginning to feel uncomfortable with her requests. 
PICARD: Because of her relationship with me? 
RIKER: Yes, sir. 
PICARD: Are her requests unusual? 
RIKER: No. 
PICARD: Would you say that she's just trying to do her job? 
RIKER: Yes, sir. 
PICARD: Then let her do it, and feel free to do yours. Ship's resources
are your responsibility. I've always had absolute confidence in your
judgment. 
RIKER: Thank you, sir.

[Picard's quarters]

(a romantic dinner) 
NELLA: I can't believe I'm going to get the chance to study the fire
storms on Bersallis. Apparently they're generated by particle emissions
from the Bersallin sun. They cause a cascade effect in the planet's
atmosphere that. Oh, I'm boring you. 
PICARD: No, no, no you're not. It's just that Commander Riker came to
talk to me this afternoon. About you. 
NELLA: About the personnel transfer? I thought he looked uncomfortable.
He thought I was asking for special treatment. (Picard nods) I was just
doing what I thought was best for my department. 
PICARD: That's what I told him. But we have to be careful. Obviously
it's easy for people to misunderstand. 
NELLA: I don't like the thought of having to second-guess people all
the time. If I have to worry about what people are thinking about me,
I'll be concentrating on the wrong thing, and I won't be as effective
an officer. 
PICARD: All I'm saying is that it's something we have to be aware of.
But you mustn't compromise yourself. You must do what you have to do.
Because if I find that my head of Stellar Sciences isn't being
effective, then I shall do what I must to do and I shall replace her. 
NELLA: Noted, sir. 
PICARD: Now, I think that we should just forget about this and enjoy
out evening. 
NELLA: What about that special dessert you promised me? 
PICARD: Right. Now this is something that I first tasted on Thelka
Four. 
WORF [OC]: Bridge to Captain. 
PICARD: Go ahead, Mister Worf. 
WORF [OC]: Bersallis Three reports that the storm has changed its speed
and heading. They are predicting it will hit the outpost within eight
hours, and are requesting evacuation. 
PICARD: I'm on my way.

Captain's log, stardate 46693.1. We have entered
the Bersallis star system and are making preparations to evacuate the
Federation outpost on the third planet.

[Observation lounge]

LAFORGE: A fire storm can kick up winds of over two
hundred kilometres per hour and temperatures as high as three hundred
degrees C. 
CRUSHER: Incredible. What causes them? 
NELLA: They form when solar flare radiation reacts with high energy
plasma present in the planet's atmosphere. 
CRUSHER: Wasn't the outpost built to withstand the conditions? 
LAFORGE: It was, both reinforced and insulated. But this is no ordinary
storm. It's twice as strong as anything they've ever seen. The outpost
just won't withstand it. 
RIKER: We'll arrive about an hour before the storm gets there. It will
take at least two hours to evacuate all the colonists off the surface. 
NELLA: I led a team of geologists to study the plasma geyser on Melnos
Four. We cross-connected a few thermal deflector units to create a
protective shield against the heat. 
LAFORGE: A firewall. 
NELLA: Would something like that work here? 
LAFORGE: You know, it might. (goes to the wall monitor) The storm is
approaching the outpost from this direction. If we were to set up a
series of thermal
deflector units along the northern perimeter, we could create a fire
wall and deflect some of the heat. The insulation from the outpost
should be able to handle the rest. 
DATA: Thermal deflectors generate a field approximately four hundred
metres wide. We would need to cross-connect six units and align them so
the fields overlap. 
RIKER: How many people would it take to set that up? 
LAFORGE: Twelve. Two per team. Cross-connecting that many units will be
a little tricky. Once they're set up, we'll have to leave the units in
place and transport our people out. Nobody would be able survive very
long outside that structure. 
PICARD: Let's do it. 
RIKER: The storm is going to interfere with communications. Everything
will need to be coordinated from the surface. Mister Data, you will
coordinate the evacuation of the colonists. Doctor, they have nine
patients in the outpost infirmary. Your first priority will be to get
them to Sickbay. After that you will stay on board the Enterprise, be
ready to receive casualties. Marquez, you will take some people down
and track the storm. All the other teams will need to be kept apprised
of its heading. Commander, you're in charge of deploying the
deflectors. Let's go. 
PICARD: Commander Daren. About these thermal deflectors. 
(everyone else leaves) 
PICARD: There must be one of any number of people could coordinate
their deployment. 
NELLA: I assume Commander Riker chose me because I'm the best person
for the job. Didn't we agree not to let our relationship get in the way
of our work? I'll be all right.

