TROI LAFORGE WORF PICARD RIKER NELLA HELM

[Bridge]

WORF: Captain. The Federation Outpost on Bersallis
Three reports that they are entering a period of fire storm activity. 
LAFORGE: Bersallin fire storms happen on seven year cycle. They're not
expecting any for another eight months. 
PICARD: We don't rendezvous with the Havana for another two days.
That'll give us plenty of opportunity to study this phenomenon. 
RIKER: Helm, set course for Bersallis Three. Warp five. 
HELM: Aye, sir. 
PICARD: Counsellor, could I speak with you in my Ready room? You have
the Bridge, Number One.

[Ready room]

PICARD: Sit down, Counsellor. I want to talk to you
about a matter of protocol. I know there are no Starfleet regulations
about a Captain becoming involved with a fellow officer, but 
TROI: You would like my opinion about you and Commander Daren. 
PICARD: It's that obvious? 
TROI: In a way that pleases people who care about your happiness, yes,
it is. 
PICARD: But I have to be concerned about more than my own happiness. 
TROI: And you think that your feelings toward Nella could change the
way you function as Captain. 
PICARD: Yes. Relationships with co-workers can be fraught with
consequences. 
TROI: That's true. But cutting yourself off from your feelings can
carry consequences that are just as serious. 
PICARD: You seem I've always believed that becoming involved with
someone under my command would compromise my objectivity. And yet. 
TROI: Captain, are you asking my permission? 
PICARD: If I were, would you give it? 
TROI: Yes.

[Stellar cartography]

NELLA: Come in. 
PICARD: Nella. 
NELLA: Can I help you, sir? 
PICARD: I'm really very sorry about what happened in the turbolift.
When the crewmember walked in, I felt very self-conscious. It's going
to take a while for me to get used to the idea of crew seeing the two
of us together. 
NELLA: I understand. I'm glad you told me. For a minute there I thought
I'd misread you. One kiss and you're off to find somebody else. 
PICARD: I can assure you that I'm not given to casual relationships. (a
crewman enters) There is something that I want to tell you. But not
here. 
