RIKER WORF DATA [OC] PICARD KLINGON [OC] OCETT [on viewscreen] CRUSHER DATA
collecting attacked admittedly capable maximum days linda di neighbourhood

[Picard's quarters]

CRUSHER: They all came up negative. 
PICARD: Well I have been through every page of the Professor's
published works, looking for some clue as to where to go next. So far,
nothing. 
CRUSHER: Maybe we've been at this too long. Why don't we both get some
sleep and start again tomorrow morning. 
PICARD: I was in the neighbourhood. When I asked the Professor why he
went all the way to Kurl, he said, I was in the neighbourhood. Doing
what? 
CRUSHER: Collecting DNA samples. 
PICARD: There's only one planet in the Kurlan system capable of
supporting life. Loren Three. 
CRUSHER: No. There is no Loren Three sample from the data downloaded
from the Professor's shuttle. If he did have one it must have been
taken by the Yridians when they attacked. 
PICARD: Mister Data, set course for Loren Three, maximum warp. 
DATA [OC]: Aye, sir.

[Bridge]

DATA: We are approaching the Loren system. 
RIKER: Slow to half impulse, and take us into orbit above the third
planet. 
PICARD: There is a good chance that our competition may be here before
us. Battle stations, Mister Worf. 
WORF: Aye. 
DATA: We are now entering orbit. 
PICARD: On screen. 
RIKER: You were right, Captain, we've got company. Cardassians. 
WORF: They are hailing us. 
PICARD: On screen. 
OCETT [on viewscreen]: My name is Gul Ocett. Identify yourselves and
state your business in this star system. 
(tara ra boom di ay - it's Linda Thorsen under the latex) 
PICARD: I am Captain Jean-Luc Picard of the Federation Starship
Enterprise and I see no reason why I should answer to you.
Cardassians have no claims in this sector. 
OCETT [on viewscreen]: I suppose not. But my admittedly hasty estimate
shows one Federation Starship and two Cardassian war vessels. Perhaps I
have miscounted. 
PICARD: Not at all. But we are on a purely scientific mission. You have
no reason to interfere with us. 
OCETT [on viewscreen]: And you have nothing to lose by delaying a
purely scientific mission for a few days. I invite you to withdraw. 
WORF: Captain, a Klingon attack cruiser decloaking off the starboard
bow. They are hailing us. 
KLINGON [OC]: This is the Klingon vessel Maht-H'a. What are you doing
here? 
Captain's log, supplemental. It seems that we have
not one, but two competitors in our attempt to complete Professor
Galen's puzzle. I have prevailed upon the Cardassian and Klingon
captains to meet with me.

