PICARD NUDAQ CRUSHER DATA OCETT

[Laboratory]

DATA: Captain. 
(The Klingon enters his data and more sections link up) 
NU'DAQ: Excellent. 
(Ocett adds her data, and it looks a good three quarters done) 
CRUSHER: There's still one missing piece. 
NU'DAQ: Pahk! We have surrendered what we had for nothing. 
OCETT: You are remarkably short sighted, Nu'Daq. We are closer to the
answer than we were. 
PICARD: We may be very much closer indeed. 
NU'DAQ: How can that be? We have no idea where to start looking for the
missing DNA fragment. 
PICARD: This is a jigsaw puzzle whose pieces are scattered across the
galaxy. Doesn't it make it natural to assume that the original
designers of the puzzle should want us to find it? Why else would they
have put the pieces in our DNA? And in turn, doesn't suggest they would
try to make it easy for us to find those pieces, that there might be
some pattern to their distribution? 
CRUSHER: The computer might be able to find that pattern. 
PICARD: Doctor, programme the computer to analyse the distribution of
the pieces that we have, correcting for changes in star configurations
over four billion years, then extrapolate for the missing piece. 
CRUSHER: That's going to take several hours to set up and to process.
If you'll excuse me. 
PICARD: If you wish, you can stay on board while we wait. 
NU'DAQ: I intend to.

[Ten Forward]

(Data is at a table, reading a PADD) 
NU'DAQ: Good evening, Commander Data. 
DATA: Captain. 
NU'DAQ: Is there any word yet on the missing fragment? 
DATA: The computer is processing the data. I will be notified as soon
as there is any information. 
NU'DAQ: Commander, your reputation for physical strength is known even
in the Klingon Empire. You are familiar with the B'aht Qul challenge? 
DATA: I am familiar with many Klingon rituals, including the B'aht Qul.

(Nu'Daq sits opposite Data, both elbows on the table and hands raised.
Data mirrors him, putting his hands inside Nu'Daq's) 
NU'DAQ: Wa' Cha' Wej 
(Data instantly pushes Nu'Daq's arms back onto the table, and returns
to his PADD) 
NU'DAQ: Maw' tok! 
(Nu'Daq head-butts Data, but falls backwards himself) 
DATA: My upper spinal support is a polyalloy designed to withstand
extreme stress. My skull is composed of cortenide and duranium. 
NU'DAQ: I understand your intellectual prowess is equally impressive.
If I were to learn of the results from the computer search before the
others, the Klingon Empire would have a strategic advantage. A being of
your abilities would go far in the Empire. 
DATA: You are attempting to bribe me. 
NU'DAQ: Not at all. 
DATA: You suggested a plan that would work to your advantage, one that
I would be capable of executing. You then implied a reward. Clearly you
were 
NU'DAQ: Commander, never mind.

