TROI WORF PICARD GALEN [on viewscreen] RIKER GALEN CREWMAN [OC] DATA
decided thirty far bloated walked career vital maintenancing blocked

[Laboratory]

(a map of the known galaxy is up on a wall monitor)

GALEN: Good morning, Mister Picard. 
PICARD: Professor. 
GALEN: The Vulcan ship will take us as far as DS Four. An Al-Leyan
transport is scheduled to arrive at the station three weeks later.
They'll take us as far as Caere, and then we'll use the shuttle to get
us to Indri Eight, our first stop. 
PICARD: Professor, I'm afraid I won't be going. The Enterprise isn't
something that I can leave and then come back to. If I go, I go for
good. It's not something I'm not prepared to do. 
GALEN: This is not some undergraduate study project that you're turning
down. This is the chance of a lifetime. Don't make the same mistake
twice. 
PICARD: You don't believe that my career in Starfleet has been a
mistake. 
GALEN: What are you doing at this very moment? A study mission. You're
like some Roman centurion out patrolling the provinces, maintenancing a
dull and bloated Empire. 
PICARD: We both know that's not true. 
GALEN: I know this. I know that as a scholar, you're nothing but a
dilettante. Years ago, I gave you the opportunity to become the finest
archaeologist of your generation. Your achievements could have
outstripped even my own, but no, you decided to reject a life of
profound discovery. You walked out on me. 
PICARD: I never wanted to become 
GALEN: Will you come with me? 
PICARD: I can't. 
GALEN: I'll be going. 
PICARD: But Professor, you're not scheduled to catch the Vulcan ship
for another two days. 
GALEN: There's nothing for me here. Goodbye, Captain.

Captain's log, supplemental. We have completed our
mission in the nebula and are en route to a diplomatic conference on
Atalia Seven. I must admit I've lost my enthusiasm for those
proceedings.

[Bridge]

DATA: At our present speed, we will arrive at the
Atalia system in thirty seven hours. 
TROI: Captain, I'm going for a walk in the arboretum. I wouldn't mind
some company. 
WORF: Captain, a distress call from Professor Galen's shuttle. On
screen. 
GALEN [on viewscreen]: Enterprise! I'm being boarded. 
WORF: Transmission has been blocked. 
DATA: I have located the shuttle. It is under attack. 
PICARD: Take us out of warp. On screen. 
WORF: A Yridian destroyer. 
RIKER: Battle stations. 
WORF: Aye, sir. 
DATA: Professor Galen is still inside his vessel, sir. His vital signs
are barely registering. 
PICARD: Get him out of there. 
WORF: The shuttle is enveloped by a tractor beam. The transporter
cannot penetrate it. 
RIKER: Hail the Yridians. 
WORF: They are not responding. 
(the Enterprise rocks under weapons fire) 
PICARD: Return phaser fire. Disable their offensive systems. 
(but instead, the big ship goes KaBOOM!) 
RIKER: Worf! 
WORF: I don't understand, Commander. The phaser blast was not powerful
enough to destroy the ship. 
PICARD: Transporter Room One, lock on to Professor Galen and transport
him directly to Sickbay. 
CREWMAN [OC]: Aye, sir. 
