PICARD COMPUTER DATA LAFORGE CRUSHER

[Laboratory]

COMPUTER: Pattern match found. 
CRUSHER: Specify. 
COMPUTER: The number blocks are mathematical representations of
fragments of deoxyribonucleic acid strands. 
PICARD: DNA fragments? 
CRUSHER: Each from a different lifeform from nineteen different worlds.

PICARD: The planets that these fragments are from are scattered across
the quadrant. No wonder it took the Professor so long to collect them.
But why? 
CRUSHER: Wait a minute. These fragments all seem to have similar
protein configurations. They may be chemically compatible. 
PICARD: But how can that be possible? They're different species from
different planets. There should be no compatibility at all. 
CRUSHER: I know, but look at the base pair combinations, they're
uniform. If I'm right. Computer, connect the DNA fragments according to
protein link compatibility. 
PICARD: What is it? 
CRUSHER: I have no idea. 
[Engineering]

LAFORGE: This is not a natural design. Captain.
This is part of an algorithm, coded at the molecular level. 
PICARD: An algorithm? Are you saying that these DNA fragments are
elements in some kind of computer
programme? 
LAFORGE: I know how it sounds, but there's no way this could be a
random formation. This is definitely part of a
programme. 
CRUSHER: This fragment has been part of every DNA strand on Earth since
life began there, and the other fragments are just as old. Someone must
have written this programme over four billion years ago. 
PICARD: So, four billion years ago someone scattered this genetic
material into the primordial soup of at least nineteen different
planets across the galaxy? 
DATA: The genetic information must have been incorporated into the
earliest lifeforms on these planets, and then passed down through each
generation. 
CRUSHER: But why would anyone do this in the first place? 
PICARD: And what was this programme designed to do? 
LAFORGE: Well, we couldn't know that until we assembled the entire
programme and then ran it. We've tried all the DNA material in the
Federation computer, but we haven't been able to come up with any with
compatible protein configurations. 
PICARD: Then they must be from worlds outside the Federation. Mister
Data, how many people on the Enterprise are from non-Federation
planets? 
DATA: Seventeen, sir. 
PICARD: You know, this may be a long shot, but we should check each one
of these seventeen people to see if they have the correct protein
configurations. 
CRUSHER: I'll begin collecting DNA samples now. 
LAFORGE: You know, Captain, I've been thinking. Somebody else must know
about this
programme. I bet one of the missing fragments was on Indri Eight.
That's why it was destroyed. 
PICARD: To keep us from finding that piece of the puzzle. It's four
billion years old. A computer
programme from a highly advanced civilisation, and it's hidden in the
very fabric of life itself. Whatever information this programme
contains could be the most profound discovery of our time. Or the most
dangerous. And the Professor knew that.

