RIKER WORF PICARD NU'DAQ KLINGON [OC] OCETT [on viewscreen] OCETT DATA
story miscounted dna biosphere ones ra battle ridiculous silence

[Bridge]

DATA: We are approaching the Loren system. 
RIKER: Slow to half impulse, and take us into orbit above the third
planet. 
PICARD: There is a good chance that our competition may be here before
us. Battle stations, Mister Worf. 
WORF: Aye. 
DATA: We are now entering orbit. 
PICARD: On screen. 
RIKER: You were right, Captain, we've got company. Cardassians. 
WORF: They are hailing us. 
PICARD: On screen. 
OCETT [on viewscreen]: My name is Gul Ocett. Identify yourselves and
state your business in this star system. 
(tara ra boom di ay - it's Linda Thorsen under the latex) 
PICARD: I am Captain Jean-Luc Picard of the Federation Starship
Enterprise and I see no reason why I should answer to you.
Cardassians have no claims in this sector. 
OCETT [on viewscreen]: I suppose not. But my admittedly hasty estimate
shows one Federation Starship and two Cardassian war vessels. Perhaps I
have miscounted. 
PICARD: Not at all. But we are on a purely scientific mission. You have
no reason to interfere with us. 
OCETT [on viewscreen]: And you have nothing to lose by delaying a
purely scientific mission for a few days. I invite you to withdraw. 
WORF: Captain, a Klingon attack cruiser decloaking off the starboard
bow. They are hailing us. 
KLINGON [OC]: This is the Klingon vessel Maht-H'a. What are you doing
here? 
Captain's log, supplemental. It seems that we have
not one, but two competitors in our attempt to complete Professor
Galen's puzzle. I have prevailed upon the Cardassian and Klingon
captains to meet with me.

[Observation lounge]

PICARD: I believe we all know why we're here. If we
admit that, then we can move forward. 
OCETT: We were merely scouting the planet for possible colonization 
NU'DAQ: Pah! A ridiculous story. 
OCETT: What were you doing here, then? 
NU'DAQ: Scientific research. 
OCETT: Ha! 
PICARD: Look, if we try to deceive one other, then we shall get
nowhere. I think we all know about Professor Galen's research, and
about the computer programme composed of DNA fragments. I'll take your
silence as confirmation. Now, it stands to reason that none of us has
the DNA fragments necessary to complete the programme. You were the
first to arrive in this system. Do you have an organic sample from the
planet below? 
OCETT: Yes. And I will fire on anyone who attempts to obtain another
one. 
NU'DAQ: As if we fear Cardassian threats. 
PICARD: I believe that one of you has a fragment from Indri Eight. 
NU'DAQ: Yes. And there will be no other samples from Indri Eight. 
OCETT: What is that supposed to mean? 
PICARD: He destroyed the biosphere of the planet after he had taken the
sample. 
OCETT: Typical Klingon thinking. Take what you want and destroy the
rest. 
PICARD: We're all missing some of the fragments, not necessarily the
same ones. Unless we combine the ones we have, we will never learn the
secret of the
programme. 
NU'DAQ: There is no secret. It is an ancient weapon design of
incredible power. And the Klingon Empire will not allow it to fall into
an enemy's hands. Or even a friend's. 
OCETT: A weapon? The Yridian who sold us the information claimed that
the programme
would yield the key to an unlimited power source. 
PICARD: But until we assemble it, we will never know its purpose. 
OCETT: He's right. As far as we know, it might just be a recipe for
biscuits. 
NU'DAQ: Biscuits? If that is what you believe, then go back to
Cardassia. I will send you my mother's recipe. 
OCETT: How dare you! 
PICARD: Myriap! Enough. Without cooperation we will get nowhere. 
OCETT: What do you propose? 
PICARD: If you each bring your samples on board the Enterprise, I will
combine them with ours. And then we will all observe the results
simultaneously, giving no one the advantage. 
NU'DAQ: And if we refuse? 
PICARD: Then this endeavour dies here, in this room.

