PICARD RIKER GALEN
grown eyes graciously extraordinarily lights microscopic surprise configuration civilisation

[Observation lounge]

(the room is dark when Picard enters. On the table
is a stylistic pottery item,
semi-Buddha shaped) 
PICARD: Oh, my God. 
GALEN: Then you can identify this object, Mister Picard. 
PICARD: Professor Galen? 
RIKER: Computer, lights up. 
GALEN: I suppose I should say Captain Picard. 
RIKER: Professor Galen contacted me from his shuttle an hour ago. He
suggested that we surprise you. 
GALEN: To clarify. I insisted and your First Officer was good enough to
accommodate me. I trust I'm not being overly presumptuous, now that my
star pupil is master of the stars. 
PICARD: No one is could be more welcome on the Enterprise. I never
thought I would see a Kurlan naiskos. Fifth Dynasty? 
GALEN: Is that your conclusion, Mister Picard. Forgive me again. I
should say Captain. 
PICARD: Oh, please, Mister will do fine. Well, the overall
configuration is certainly Fifth Dynasty. The surface ornamentation. 
GALEN: Yes? 
PICARD: Green polychrome over the eyes, and the eyes themselves are
closed. This is third Dynasty. From the workshop of the Master of
Tarquin Hill. 
GALEN: Well done. 
PICARD: Will, the Master of Tarquin Hill designed ceramic objects that
were three hundred years ahead of their time. All we know of him is the
work. His name has never been discovered. This object is over twelve
thousand years old. 
RIKER: The planet Kurl? It's a hell of a long way outside Federation
territory. 
PICARD: Indeed. I thought your study of Kurlan artefacts was done long
ago. 
GALEN: I happened to be in the neighbourhood last summer. I couldn't
resist. Go ahead. 
PICARD: You mean it's complete? 
(Picard raises the top half of the pot to reveal a cluster of little
pots inside it) 
PICARD: Will, the Kurlan civilisation believed that an individual was a
community of individuals. Inside us are many voices, each with its own
desires, its own style, its own view of the world. The Kurlan
civilisation died out thousands of years ago. It is extraordinarily
rare to find a figurine intact. Professor, this is an incredible find. 
GALEN: It's yours, Jean-Luc. 
PICARD: Oh, no. No. How can I accept this? 
GALEN: Graciously, Mister Picard. You could accept it graciously. 
PICARD: Thank you. How long can you stay? There's so much to talk
about. 
RIKER: The Professor is scheduled to meet a Vulcan transport the day
after tomorrow. 
PICARD: Two days? But that's not enough time. 
GALEN: We may have considerably more than that. 
PICARD: I don't understand. 
GALEN: I am currently on an expedition. A journey into an unexplored
and historical territory, and I intend to take you with me.

Captain's log, supplemental. It's been over thirty
years since I last saw my archaeology professor. His presence has taken
me back to a time when I had considered a very different career. 
[Ten Forward]

PICARD: May I ask you a frank question? 
GALEN: Please. 
PICARD: Your published writings have been sporadic for the last decade.
Your appearance at symposia has been rare, or scheduled and then
cancelled at the last moment. The finest archaeologist of the century
is now shrouded with a cloak of mystery. 
GALEN: And as a result my reputation has no doubt grown. 
PICARD: I've never heard of anyone that didn't love a good mystery. 
GALEN: The Satarran of Sothis Three disdained them, but as a general
idea, your statement holds. 
PICARD: So, what have you been doing for the past decade? 
GALEN: Are you familiar with micropaleontology? 
PICARD: Yes, it's the study of fossil records at the microscopic level.
I read your papers on the subject, but that was years ago. It seemed as
though the work had stopped. 
GALEN: No. The work continued. I made a discovery so profound in its
implications that silence seemed the wisest course. This work has
occupied my every waking thought, it's intruded upon my dreams, it's
become my life. When finished and I announce my findings, it will be
heard half way across the galaxy. 
PICARD: Tell me. 
GALEN: I'm cannot, Mister Picard. That information comes with a price.
Your agreement to join me on the final leg of this expedition. 
PICARD: For how long? 
GALEN: Three months, perhaps a year. If I had complete diplomatic
access and a starship, it'd be a matter of weeks. But as it is, we'll
have only my shuttle and whatever arrangement we can make with
transports, combined with our talents. 
PICARD: Why do you need my help in this? 
GALEN: I'm not a young man. There will be hazards along the way. I
don't want my own inadequacies to jeopardise the completion of this
work. 
PICARD: I'm deeply honoured that you'd think of me, but I have
responsibilities. 
GALEN: To History. What if you could have helped Schliemann discover
the City of Troy, or been with M'Tell as she first stepped on Ya'Seem.
How could anything compare? 
PICARD: May I sleep on it? 
GALEN: Dream not of today, Mister Picard. 
PICARD: Dream not of today. The night blessing of the Yash-El. 
GALEN: As I recall, you missed that question on the final exam. 
PICARD: Well, I've had a few years to look it up. Professor, the
Enterprise is yours for as long as you're here. 
GALEN: Thank you. 
PICARD: Dream not of today.

