LAFORGE WORF PICARD GALEN CRUSHER DATA

[Sickbay]

CRUSHER: He took a disruptor hit point blank. There
is nothing I can do. 
(the life-signs monitor starts to flat-line) 
GALEN: Jean-Luc, I was too harsh. 
[Observation lounge]

LAFORGE: I'd say at least three Yridians boarded
the Professor's shuttle. 
PICARD: What did they want? 
LAFORGE: I'm not sure, but it looks like they were trying to download
something from his computer. 
DATA: When he was attacked, Professor Galen began to protect certain
files in his computer memory. 
LAFORGE: We were able to partially reconstruct the shuttle's computers,
so at least we have some of those files. We found nineteen different
blocks of numbers like this one. 
(five digit groups in white, orange and pink) 
PICARD: What do they mean? 
DATA: They could mean anything. Unless we can narrow the parameters of
the search, it would be almost impossible for the computer to identify
the pattern with any accuracy. 
LAFORGE: We tried every decryption key on record in case Professor
Galen was using some kind of code. We still can't make heads or tails
of them. 
WORF: Were the Yridians able to get these number blocks? 
LAFORGE: At least some of them. It's impossible to say know many. 
PICARD: Apparently, the Yridians knew more about the Professor's work
than we do. They may have known what these numbers mean. 
LAFORGE: If they did, that information died with them. 
PICARD: Not necessarily. The Yridians are information dealers. They may
have been delivering the number blocks to someone else. Did they send a
signal before they were destroyed? 
WORF: No, sir. We detected no transmissions. 
LAFORGE: And there were no other vessels in the vicinity. 
PICARD: Did the shuttle's flight logs show where Galen had been before
coming to the Enterprise? 
DATA: Yes, sir. The logs indicate Professor Galen visited an unexplored
star system, Ruah Four. 
PICARD: What's the distance from our present position? 
DATA: Four days at warp six, sir. 
PICARD: The conference can wait. Set a course for the Ruah system.

