PICARD [OC] TROI WORF PICARD RIKER DATA
atmosphere room pattern orbit lab increase bring computer abandon

[Ready room]

(Picard is shuffling the number blocks on his desk
monitor) 
PICARD: Come. 
TROI: How's it going? 
PICARD: I thought if I stared at these number blocks long enough then I
would begin to see some kind of pattern. So far, nothing. 
TROI: I meant, how's it going with you? 
PICARD: If I had gone with him. 
TROI: Captain, you can't start thinking like that. You didn't abandon
him. You chose not to abandon a life-long career. It was the right
decision, and in no way responsible for his death. 
PICARD: I realise that. 
TROI: I know how much the Professor meant to you and how much you want
to find out what happened, but staring at these numbers isn't going to
bring him back. The conference on Atalia Seven has been scheduled for
six months. Starfleet is relying on your mediation efforts to 
PICARD: Counsellor, this is not simply a case of me taking the
Enterprise and its crew on some wild goose chase to purge myself of
guilt and remorse. I will not let Galen's death to be in vain. Now, if
that means inconveniencing a few squabbling delegates for a few days,
then so be it. I will take the full responsibility. 
(and he goes back to staring at numbers) 
TROI: Captain.

[Bridge]

WORF: We are about to enter the Indri system, sir. 
RIKER: Riker to Picard. We are approaching Indri Eight. 
PICARD [OC]: On my way. 
DATA: Sensors are picking up severe atmospheric fluctuations on the
planet. 
RIKER: Assume a high orbit. 
PICARD: On screen, Mister Worf. 
(a pretty blue green planet is turning a nasty orange-brown) 
WORF: Some kind of plasma reaction is consuming the lower atmosphere. 
PICARD: Can we stop it? 
WORF: No, sir. The reaction is global. 
DATA: All life on the planet is being destroyed, sir. 
RIKER: Why would anyone want to destroy all the life on an uninhabited,
neutral planet with no strategic importance whatsoever? 
PICARD: All the life. Perhaps the Professor's number blocks had
something to do with organic matter. 
DATA: If we narrow the search parameters to the biological database, it
might increase the chances of the computer finding a match. 
PICARD: I'll be in the lab.

