PICARD RIKER DATA TROI
gone monitor doesn timetable abandon genus civilisation eighth transport

[Bridge]

RIKER: Standard orbit, Ensign. 
DATA: Ruah Four is a class-M planet. Sixty seven percent of its surface
is covered with water. Its landmass contains multiple animal species,
including a genus of proto-hominids. 
PICARD: Scan for earthworks or monuments that might indicate a previous
civilisation. 
DATA: There is nothing to indicate former occupancy by even a primitive
culture, sir. 
PICARD: Then what was the foremost archaeologist in the Federation
doing here? He left the Enterprise in a Vulcan ship for Deep Space
Four, and then an Al-Leyan transport to Caere, and then the shuttle to
Indri Eight. Mister Data, what do we know about Indri Eight? 
DATA: The Indri system was first identified by Federation vessels
nearly sixty years ago. The eighth planet is L-class. It is covered by
deciduous vegetation, unexplored, with no apparent evidence of
civilisations, either present or past. The planet possesses no animal
life whatsoever. 
PICARD: Number One, we'll proceed to Indri Eight. 
RIKER: With all due respect, sir, we've already run into one dead end.
Indri Eight doesn't seem much more promising. And we're late for the
conference on Atalia Seven. 
PICARD: I'm aware of the Federation's timetable, Number One. Professor
Galen visited here a few days ago. And he was on his way to Indri Eight
when he was killed. There's some connection between these two planets.
I'm going to find it. 
RIKER: Aye, sir. Ensign, lay in a course for Indri Eight, warp seven.

[Ready room]

(Picard is shuffling the number blocks on his desk
monitor) 
PICARD: Come. 
TROI: How's it going? 
PICARD: I thought if I stared at these number blocks long enough then I
would begin to see some kind of pattern. So far, nothing. 
TROI: I meant, how's it going with you? 
PICARD: If I had gone with him. 
TROI: Captain, you can't start thinking like that. You didn't abandon
him. You chose not to abandon a life-long career. It was the right
decision, and in no way responsible for his death. 
PICARD: I realise that. 
TROI: I know how much the Professor meant to you and how much you want
to find out what happened, but staring at these numbers isn't going to
bring him back. The conference on Atalia Seven has been scheduled for
six months. Starfleet is relying on your mediation efforts to 
PICARD: Counsellor, this is not simply a case of me taking the
Enterprise and its crew on some wild goose chase to purge myself of
guilt and remorse. I will not let Galen's death to be in vain. Now, if
that means inconveniencing a few squabbling delegates for a few days,
then so be it. I will take the full responsibility. 
(and he goes back to staring at numbers) 
TROI: Captain.

