RIKER WORF RIKER [OC] PICARD NU'DAQ HUMANOID ROMULAN OCETT CRUSHER DATA
given codes shaped brother deals stardate hear compromise yes

[Bridge]

DATA: I am reading a small pocket of vegetative
life. A primitive lichen growing in a fossilised seabed. 
RIKER: Transporter room one. I am programming the coordinates. Stand
by.

[Planet surface]

(with rock walls on three sides, ridged as if
eroded by water and wind to make handy ledges and paths) 
CRUSHER: There. Over there. 
RIKER [OC]: Captain, we've got company. I'm ready to pull you out of
there. 
PICARD: Wait for my order, Number One. 
(Ocett and an aide beam in) 
NU'DAQ: You dishonorable top'a! 
OCETT: Perhaps we could exchange insults some other time. I'm rather
busy now. 
ROMULAN: Well, it was quite a chase, wasn't it, my friends? 
NU'DAQ: How? 
ROMULAN: We intercepted several communiqus between the Yridians and
Cardassia. My ship was watching under cloak when Professor Galen's
shuttle was attacked. 
WORF: And you have been shadowing us ever since. 
ROMULAN: And now the reward. Step clear, please. 
OCETT: I shall destroy the entire rockface and every trace of DNA with
it. You will go back to Romulus empty-handed. Your superiors will be
quite pleased. 
ROMULAN: Perhaps we could come to a compromise? You give us the gene
code. 
PICARD: (sotto to Crusher) The seabed it may be only partially
fossilised. It could still contain organic material. 
CRUSHER: Which would still contain the DNA. NU'DAQ: I will not be
eliminated now. 
ROMULAN: You can be eliminated by a disrupter. Now, what do you say to
my offer. 
OCETT: How can I be sure you won't kill me if I acquiesce. 
ROMULAN: I've given you my word. 
NU'DAQ: Etched in stone, no doubt. No deals. There will be no deals as
long as I'm still alive. 
ROMULAN: Do not press me, Klingon. I don't care whether you live or
die. 
WORF: If you fire, others will also. Many will die. 
(Crusher hands Picard her scan results and he adds them to his
tricorder) 
PICARD: The programme has been activated. I think it's reconfiguring
the tricorder. 
NU'DAQ: We die together, Brother. Tash Koh Tah. 
PICARD: It's modifying the emitter diode to project something. 
(the tricorder projects a hologram. It's Salome Jens in a blank latex
head, the first but not the last she will wear on Trek) 
HUMANOID: You're wondering who we are, why we have done this, how it
has come that I stand before you, the image of a being from so long
ago. Life evolved on my planet before all others in this part of the
galaxy. We left our world, explored the stars, and found none like
ourselves. Our civilisation thrived for ages, but what is the life of
one race, compared to the vast stretches of cosmic time? We knew that
one day we would be gone, that nothing of us would survive. So, we left
you. Our scientists seeded the primordial oceans of many worlds, where
life was in its infancy. The seed codes directed your evolution toward
a physical form resembling ours. This body you see before you, which
is, of course, shaped as yours is shaped, for you are the end result.
The seed codes also contained this message, which we scattered in
fragments on many different worlds. It was our hope that you would have
to come together in fellowship and companionship to hear this message.
And if you can see and hear me, our hope has been fulfilled. You are a
monument, not to our greatness, but to our existence. That was our
wish, that you too would know life, and would keep alive our memory.
There is something of us in each of you, and so, something of you in
each other. Remember us. 
(message ends) 
NU'DAQ: That's all? If she were not dead, I would kill her. 
OCETT: The very notion. That a Cardassian could have anything in common
with a Klingon, it turns my stomach. 
PICARD: Picard to Enterprise. 
RIKER [OC]: Standing by, sir. 
Captain's log, stardate 46735.2. Our frequent use
of high warp over the last few days has overextended the propulsion
systems. We are finishing minor repairs before returning to Federation
territory.

[Picard's quarters]

CRUSHER: It's a shame Professor Galen didn't live
to see the end result of his search. 
PICARD: I can't think of anyone who would have appreciated it more. 
CRUSHER: If it hadn't been for you, his dream to solve that puzzle
would never have been realised. You left him a wonderful legacy. 
PICARD: Yes, but it would've been a more fitting legacy if the message
had not fallen on such deaf ears. 
CRUSHER: You never know. Well, I have to get this day started. 
PICARD: Both of us. 
CRUSHER: See you this afternoon. 
RIKER [OC]: Riker to Captain Picard. 
