PICARD OCETT CRUSHER DATA NUDAQ

[Observation lounge]

PICARD: I believe we all know why we're here. If we
admit that, then we can move forward. 
OCETT: We were merely scouting the planet for possible colonization 
NU'DAQ: Pah! A ridiculous story. 
OCETT: What were you doing here, then? 
NU'DAQ: Scientific research. 
OCETT: Ha! 
PICARD: Look, if we try to deceive one other, then we shall get
nowhere. I think we all know about Professor Galen's research, and
about the computer programme composed of DNA fragments. I'll take your
silence as confirmation. Now, it stands to reason that none of us has
the DNA fragments necessary to complete the programme. You were the
first to arrive in this system. Do you have an organic sample from the
planet below? 
OCETT: Yes. And I will fire on anyone who attempts to obtain another
one. 
NU'DAQ: As if we fear Cardassian threats. 
PICARD: I believe that one of you has a fragment from Indri Eight. 
NU'DAQ: Yes. And there will be no other samples from Indri Eight. 
OCETT: What is that supposed to mean? 
PICARD: He destroyed the biosphere of the planet after he had taken the
sample. 
OCETT: Typical Klingon thinking. Take what you want and destroy the
rest. 
PICARD: We're all missing some of the fragments, not necessarily the
same ones. Unless we combine the ones we have, we will never learn the
secret of the
programme. 
NU'DAQ: There is no secret. It is an ancient weapon design of
incredible power. And the Klingon Empire will not allow it to fall into
an enemy's hands. Or even a friend's. 
OCETT: A weapon? The Yridian who sold us the information claimed that
the programme
would yield the key to an unlimited power source. 
PICARD: But until we assemble it, we will never know its purpose. 
OCETT: He's right. As far as we know, it might just be a recipe for
biscuits. 
NU'DAQ: Biscuits? If that is what you believe, then go back to
Cardassia. I will send you my mother's recipe. 
OCETT: How dare you! 
PICARD: Myriap! Enough. Without cooperation we will get nowhere. 
OCETT: What do you propose? 
PICARD: If you each bring your samples on board the Enterprise, I will
combine them with ours. And then we will all observe the results
simultaneously, giving no one the advantage. 
NU'DAQ: And if we refuse? 
PICARD: Then this endeavour dies here, in this room.

[Laboratory]

DATA: Captain. 
(The Klingon enters his data and more sections link up) 
NU'DAQ: Excellent. 
(Ocett adds her data, and it looks a good three quarters done) 
CRUSHER: There's still one missing piece. 
NU'DAQ: Pahk! We have surrendered what we had for nothing. 
OCETT: You are remarkably short sighted, Nu'Daq. We are closer to the
answer than we were. 
PICARD: We may be very much closer indeed. 
NU'DAQ: How can that be? We have no idea where to start looking for the
missing DNA fragment. 
PICARD: This is a jigsaw puzzle whose pieces are scattered across the
galaxy. Doesn't it make it natural to assume that the original
designers of the puzzle should want us to find it? Why else would they
have put the pieces in our DNA? And in turn, doesn't suggest they would
try to make it easy for us to find those pieces, that there might be
some pattern to their distribution? 
CRUSHER: The computer might be able to find that pattern. 
PICARD: Doctor, programme the computer to analyse the distribution of
the pieces that we have, correcting for changes in star configurations
over four billion years, then extrapolate for the missing piece. 
CRUSHER: That's going to take several hours to set up and to process.
If you'll excuse me. 
PICARD: If you wish, you can stay on board while we wait. 
NU'DAQ: I intend to.

