PICARD RIKER DATA LAFORGE WORF

[Observation lounge]

LAFORGE: I'd say at least three Yridians boarded
the Professor's shuttle. 
PICARD: What did they want? 
LAFORGE: I'm not sure, but it looks like they were trying to download
something from his computer. 
DATA: When he was attacked, Professor Galen began to protect certain
files in his computer memory. 
LAFORGE: We were able to partially reconstruct the shuttle's computers,
so at least we have some of those files. We found nineteen different
blocks of numbers like this one. 
(five digit groups in white, orange and pink) 
PICARD: What do they mean? 
DATA: They could mean anything. Unless we can narrow the parameters of
the search, it would be almost impossible for the computer to identify
the pattern with any accuracy. 
LAFORGE: We tried every decryption key on record in case Professor
Galen was using some kind of code. We still can't make heads or tails
of them. 
WORF: Were the Yridians able to get these number blocks? 
LAFORGE: At least some of them. It's impossible to say know many. 
PICARD: Apparently, the Yridians knew more about the Professor's work
than we do. They may have known what these numbers mean. 
LAFORGE: If they did, that information died with them. 
PICARD: Not necessarily. The Yridians are information dealers. They may
have been delivering the number blocks to someone else. Did they send a
signal before they were destroyed? 
WORF: No, sir. We detected no transmissions. 
LAFORGE: And there were no other vessels in the vicinity. 
PICARD: Did the shuttle's flight logs show where Galen had been before
coming to the Enterprise? 
DATA: Yes, sir. The logs indicate Professor Galen visited an unexplored
star system, Ruah Four. 
PICARD: What's the distance from our present position? 
DATA: Four days at warp six, sir. 
PICARD: The conference can wait. Set a course for the Ruah system.

[Bridge]

RIKER: Standard orbit, Ensign. 
DATA: Ruah Four is a class-M planet. Sixty seven percent of its surface
is covered with water. Its landmass contains multiple animal species,
including a genus of proto-hominids. 
PICARD: Scan for earthworks or monuments that might indicate a previous
civilisation. 
DATA: There is nothing to indicate former occupancy by even a primitive
culture, sir. 
PICARD: Then what was the foremost archaeologist in the Federation
doing here? He left the Enterprise in a Vulcan ship for Deep Space
Four, and then an Al-Leyan transport to Caere, and then the shuttle to
Indri Eight. Mister Data, what do we know about Indri Eight? 
DATA: The Indri system was first identified by Federation vessels
nearly sixty years ago. The eighth planet is L-class. It is covered by
deciduous vegetation, unexplored, with no apparent evidence of
civilisations, either present or past. The planet possesses no animal
life whatsoever. 
PICARD: Number One, we'll proceed to Indri Eight. 
RIKER: With all due respect, sir, we've already run into one dead end.
Indri Eight doesn't seem much more promising. And we're late for the
conference on Atalia Seven. 
PICARD: I'm aware of the Federation's timetable, Number One. Professor
Galen visited here a few days ago. And he was on his way to Indri Eight
when he was killed. There's some connection between these two planets.
I'm going to find it. 
RIKER: Aye, sir. Ensign, lay in a course for Indri Eight, warp seven.

