PICARD RIKER RIKER [OC] DATA GALEN
eyes graciously course computer suppose taken survey civilisation understand

[Bridge]

DATA: Captain, I have completed the spectral
evaluation of the outer shell. Our survey of this protostar is
complete. 
PICARD: Ensign, lay in a course to the next one, three quarters
impulse. 
RIKER [OC]: Riker to Captain Picard. 
PICARD: Go ahead, Number One. 
RIKER [OC]: May I see you in the Observation Lounge, sir? 
PICARD: I'll be right there.

[Observation lounge]

(the room is dark when Picard enters. On the table
is a stylistic pottery item,
semi-Buddha shaped) 
PICARD: Oh, my God. 
GALEN: Then you can identify this object, Mister Picard. 
PICARD: Professor Galen? 
RIKER: Computer, lights up. 
GALEN: I suppose I should say Captain Picard. 
RIKER: Professor Galen contacted me from his shuttle an hour ago. He
suggested that we surprise you. 
GALEN: To clarify. I insisted and your First Officer was good enough to
accommodate me. I trust I'm not being overly presumptuous, now that my
star pupil is master of the stars. 
PICARD: No one is could be more welcome on the Enterprise. I never
thought I would see a Kurlan naiskos. Fifth Dynasty? 
GALEN: Is that your conclusion, Mister Picard. Forgive me again. I
should say Captain. 
PICARD: Oh, please, Mister will do fine. Well, the overall
configuration is certainly Fifth Dynasty. The surface ornamentation. 
GALEN: Yes? 
PICARD: Green polychrome over the eyes, and the eyes themselves are
closed. This is third Dynasty. From the workshop of the Master of
Tarquin Hill. 
GALEN: Well done. 
PICARD: Will, the Master of Tarquin Hill designed ceramic objects that
were three hundred years ahead of their time. All we know of him is the
work. His name has never been discovered. This object is over twelve
thousand years old. 
RIKER: The planet Kurl? It's a hell of a long way outside Federation
territory. 
PICARD: Indeed. I thought your study of Kurlan artefacts was done long
ago. 
GALEN: I happened to be in the neighbourhood last summer. I couldn't
resist. Go ahead. 
PICARD: You mean it's complete? 
(Picard raises the top half of the pot to reveal a cluster of little
pots inside it) 
PICARD: Will, the Kurlan civilisation believed that an individual was a
community of individuals. Inside us are many voices, each with its own
desires, its own style, its own view of the world. The Kurlan
civilisation died out thousands of years ago. It is extraordinarily
rare to find a figurine intact. Professor, this is an incredible find. 
GALEN: It's yours, Jean-Luc. 
PICARD: Oh, no. No. How can I accept this? 
GALEN: Graciously, Mister Picard. You could accept it graciously. 
PICARD: Thank you. How long can you stay? There's so much to talk
about. 
RIKER: The Professor is scheduled to meet a Vulcan transport the day
after tomorrow. 
PICARD: Two days? But that's not enough time. 
GALEN: We may have considerably more than that. 
PICARD: I don't understand. 
GALEN: I am currently on an expedition. A journey into an unexplored
and historical territory, and I intend to take you with me.

Captain's log, supplemental. It's been over thirty
years since I last saw my archaeology professor. His presence has taken
me back to a time when I had considered a very different career. 
