PICARD CRUSHER GALEN

[Ten Forward]

PICARD: May I ask you a frank question? 
GALEN: Please. 
PICARD: Your published writings have been sporadic for the last decade.
Your appearance at symposia has been rare, or scheduled and then
cancelled at the last moment. The finest archaeologist of the century
is now shrouded with a cloak of mystery. 
GALEN: And as a result my reputation has no doubt grown. 
PICARD: I've never heard of anyone that didn't love a good mystery. 
GALEN: The Satarran of Sothis Three disdained them, but as a general
idea, your statement holds. 
PICARD: So, what have you been doing for the past decade? 
GALEN: Are you familiar with micropaleontology? 
PICARD: Yes, it's the study of fossil records at the microscopic level.
I read your papers on the subject, but that was years ago. It seemed as
though the work had stopped. 
GALEN: No. The work continued. I made a discovery so profound in its
implications that silence seemed the wisest course. This work has
occupied my every waking thought, it's intruded upon my dreams, it's
become my life. When finished and I announce my findings, it will be
heard half way across the galaxy. 
PICARD: Tell me. 
GALEN: I'm cannot, Mister Picard. That information comes with a price.
Your agreement to join me on the final leg of this expedition. 
PICARD: For how long? 
GALEN: Three months, perhaps a year. If I had complete diplomatic
access and a starship, it'd be a matter of weeks. But as it is, we'll
have only my shuttle and whatever arrangement we can make with
transports, combined with our talents. 
PICARD: Why do you need my help in this? 
GALEN: I'm not a young man. There will be hazards along the way. I
don't want my own inadequacies to jeopardise the completion of this
work. 
PICARD: I'm deeply honoured that you'd think of me, but I have
responsibilities. 
GALEN: To History. What if you could have helped Schliemann discover
the City of Troy, or been with M'Tell as she first stepped on Ya'Seem.
How could anything compare? 
PICARD: May I sleep on it? 
GALEN: Dream not of today, Mister Picard. 
PICARD: Dream not of today. The night blessing of the Yash-El. 
GALEN: As I recall, you missed that question on the final exam. 
PICARD: Well, I've had a few years to look it up. Professor, the
Enterprise is yours for as long as you're here. 
GALEN: Thank you. 
PICARD: Dream not of today.

[Picard's quarters]

(the Kurlan naiskos is on a table, open) 
PICARD: Come. 
CRUSHER: Good morning. Looks like you've been up for a while. 
PICARD: Yes. 
(Beverly pours herself a cup of tea) 
CRUSHER: Let's hear it. 
PICARD: I had a long talk with Professor Galen last night. He asked me
to leave the Enterprise, to join him in an archaeological expedition
which could last for nearly a year. 
CRUSHER: That must be tempting. 
PICARD: I couldn't leave the Enterprise. But the offer raised in me
certain feelings of regret. 
CRUSHER: That you could have been an archaeologist and not a starship
Captain? 
PICARD: No, not really. I'm not sorry for the path I chose. But the
Professor did not choose this figure at random. The many voices inside
the one. You see, he knows that the past is a very insistent voice
inside of me. This gift is meant to remind me of that. 
CRUSHER: And the exploration of space? Surely that must count for
something. 
PICARD: I wouldn't trade it for anything, and I would still make the
same choice I made all those years ago. I just wish that I didn't have
to say no to him a second time. 
CRUSHER: Were you two very close? 
PICARD: I had a father, but he was like a father who understood me. And
he had his own children but they didn't follow in his footsteps, so I
was like the son who understood him. 
CRUSHER: And yet you turned your back on him. 
PICARD: In a way, I wish he'd never come on board the ship.

