PICARD CRUSHER GALEN

[Picard's quarters]

(the Kurlan naiskos is on a table, open) 
PICARD: Come. 
CRUSHER: Good morning. Looks like you've been up for a while. 
PICARD: Yes. 
(Beverly pours herself a cup of tea) 
CRUSHER: Let's hear it. 
PICARD: I had a long talk with Professor Galen last night. He asked me
to leave the Enterprise, to join him in an archaeological expedition
which could last for nearly a year. 
CRUSHER: That must be tempting. 
PICARD: I couldn't leave the Enterprise. But the offer raised in me
certain feelings of regret. 
CRUSHER: That you could have been an archaeologist and not a starship
Captain? 
PICARD: No, not really. I'm not sorry for the path I chose. But the
Professor did not choose this figure at random. The many voices inside
the one. You see, he knows that the past is a very insistent voice
inside of me. This gift is meant to remind me of that. 
CRUSHER: And the exploration of space? Surely that must count for
something. 
PICARD: I wouldn't trade it for anything, and I would still make the
same choice I made all those years ago. I just wish that I didn't have
to say no to him a second time. 
CRUSHER: Were you two very close? 
PICARD: I had a father, but he was like a father who understood me. And
he had his own children but they didn't follow in his footsteps, so I
was like the son who understood him. 
CRUSHER: And yet you turned your back on him. 
PICARD: In a way, I wish he'd never come on board the ship.

[Laboratory]

(a map of the known galaxy is up on a wall monitor)

GALEN: Good morning, Mister Picard. 
PICARD: Professor. 
GALEN: The Vulcan ship will take us as far as DS Four. An Al-Leyan
transport is scheduled to arrive at the station three weeks later.
They'll take us as far as Caere, and then we'll use the shuttle to get
us to Indri Eight, our first stop. 
PICARD: Professor, I'm afraid I won't be going. The Enterprise isn't
something that I can leave and then come back to. If I go, I go for
good. It's not something I'm not prepared to do. 
GALEN: This is not some undergraduate study project that you're turning
down. This is the chance of a lifetime. Don't make the same mistake
twice. 
PICARD: You don't believe that my career in Starfleet has been a
mistake. 
GALEN: What are you doing at this very moment? A study mission. You're
like some Roman centurion out patrolling the provinces, maintenancing a
dull and bloated Empire. 
PICARD: We both know that's not true. 
GALEN: I know this. I know that as a scholar, you're nothing but a
dilettante. Years ago, I gave you the opportunity to become the finest
archaeologist of your generation. Your achievements could have
outstripped even my own, but no, you decided to reject a life of
profound discovery. You walked out on me. 
PICARD: I never wanted to become 
GALEN: Will you come with me? 
PICARD: I can't. 
GALEN: I'll be going. 
PICARD: But Professor, you're not scheduled to catch the Vulcan ship
for another two days. 
GALEN: There's nothing for me here. Goodbye, Captain.

Captain's log, supplemental. We have completed our
mission in the nebula and are en route to a diplomatic conference on
Atalia Seven. I must admit I've lost my enthusiasm for those
proceedings.

