PICARD RIKER WORF

[Ready room]

RIKER: Tilonus Four? Didn't their government just
collapse? 
PICARD: It's in a state of total anarchy. When the Prime Minister was
assassinated, a Federation research team was on the planet. It's
believed that they were forced into hiding. Your mission will be to
locate and to evacuate them. 
RIKER: Can't they go to local authorities? 
PICARD: There are no local authorities. The government is splintered.
It seems that there are various factions vying for power. They're
desperate for weapons or technology of any kind. Apparently, some of
the factions have resorted to torture to gather their information.
Well, a Starfleet research team would be a prime target. 
RIKER: Then I'll have to go down there alone, undercover. 
PICARD: Agreed. Mister Worf is ready to give you a detailed briefing on
Tilonian culture. 
RIKER: Well, I guess I'll have to back out of Beverly's play after all.

PICARD: Oh no, no, there'll be plenty of time for that. We don't
arriving at Tilonus for another five days. And besides, if you back
out, she'll come after me to play the part.

[Observation lounge]

(a map is on the wall monitor) 
WORF: This is the last known location of the research team. They had
occupied a small building in the south-west quarter of the city. You
will begin your search there. 
RIKER: The south-west quarter covers over two hundred square
kilometres. That's a lot of land for one man to cover. I guess I'd
better pack an extra pair of boots. 
WORF: This apparel will allow you to pass as a common merchant. This
Tilonian pendant is equipped with a communicator circuit. 
RIKER: It doesn't really match the outfit. 
WORF: I suggest you pay closer attention, Commander. Your life will be
at stake. Do you understand what I am saying? 
RIKER: Of course I do. 
WORF: Because you will be posing as a merchant, you will need to know
how to use the nisroh for the traditional bartering ceremony. 
(it is, of course, a dagger) 
WORF: You will be judged on your prowess with the blade. 
(Worf demonstrates, cutting Riker on the right temple) 
WORF: I am sorry, Commander! I did not intend 
RIKER: It's okay. I guess I really wasn't paying attention. I'd better
go to Sickbay. We'll continue this later.

