RIKER SUNA WORF PICARD TROI MAVEK WORF [OC] CRUSHER SYRUS
broke pushes responsible try finished place lot forward reflection

[Sickbay]

CRUSHER: There's damage to the parietal lobe. It's
as if someone's trying to access his long-term memory. He's in a severe
state of neural shock. It's going to take him a while to recover. 
PICARD: Number One, do you remember what happened? You were abducted
during the mission to Tilonus Four. You were put into a psychiatric
hospital. 
RIKER: It's still bleeding. 
CRUSHER: It's minor. Don't worry about it. 
WORF: We have been checking on the hospital Administrator. 
RIKER: Mister Suna. 
PICARD: It appears that he's involved with one of the rival factions.
We believe that he is responsible for what happened to you. 
RIKER: It still hurts. It's bleeding again. Why? You just healed it. 
CRUSHER: Will, try to calm down. 
RIKER: This isn't real. 
(Riker knocks Worf down and takes his phaser) 
PICARD: What are you doing, Will? 
RIKER: If I'm right, you're not really here. This isn't a real phaser.
It's all a fantasy, and I'm going to end it, no matter what it takes. 
PICARD: But what if it isn't a fantasy? Are you willing to take that
chance? 
RIKER: You're right, I won't. But I'm going to find out what's real and
what's not. 
(and he points the phaser at his own chest) 
CRUSHER: Will, don't do it! 
(Riker fires, and the Sickbay shatters. Picard, Worf and Crusher are
replaced by)

[Asylum cell]

SUNA: How's he progressing? 
SYRUS: He's not responding to the Reflection therapy. His delusions are
growing more elaborate. 
MAVEK: He broke out of his cell last night. We found him running down a
corridor claiming people had come to take him back to his starship. 
SUNA: Then I see no other choice. We'll have to perform the synaptic
reconstruction. 
RIKER: I still have a phaser. Why do I still have a phaser? 
SUNA: It's not a phaser, it's a knife. You stole it from one of the
food trays. Give it to me. We don't want you to hurt yourself. 
(Riker's temple starts bleeding again.) 
RIKER: I don't believe you. 
(Mavek steps forward, Riker fires the phaser and he shatters like a
broken mirror) 
RIKER: If this is a knife, what happened to Mavek? 
SUNA: It's very complicated. I'll answer all of your questions, but
first I want you to put that down. 
RIKER: No. If this is a real phaser, then I was on the Enterprise. But
I fired it on myself, so I should be dead. None of this is real. I'm
setting this to level sixteen, wide field. That should destroy half of
this building. Unless, of course, this isn't a real phaser. 
(Riker fires at the wall, which shatters to show the audience watching
the play.)

[Theatre Asylum cell]

(Cyrus has disappeared) 
RIKER: It's all about you, isn't it? You're the only constant, the only
person in both places. 
SUNA: There's a lot more going on here than you realise. 
RIKER: This isn't real, either. What's happening to me? 
SUNA: Listen to me. We can still save you, but you must stop fighting
us. 
(Riker's head hurts) 
RIKER: You're lying. 
SUNA: Let me help you. 
RIKER: No! 
(the audience applaud) 
SUNA: I'm warning you. 
RIKER: No! 
(Riker pushes Suna, and the audience get to their feet, shouting Bravo.
Then Riker shatters, the scene shatters and )

[Alien lab]

(Riker is lying on a table, with something attached
to his temple at the point where he kept bleeding) 
SUNA: He's conscious! I haven't finished the neurodrain. Get him
sedated. 
(Riker hits the assistant, rips the thing out of his head and leaps for
a table where he grabs the nisroh and pendant) 
RIKER: Riker to Enterprise! 
WORF [OC]: Enterprise here. Are you all right, sir? 
RIKER: Emergency transport. Get me out of here.

Captain's log, stardate 46778.1. Commander Riker
has returned safely from his mission to Tilonus Four. Doctor Crusher
has repaired the damage to his long-term memory. 
[Ready room]

PICARD: Evidently, you were abducted two days after
beaming to the surface. 
RIKER: I remember now. I was in an alley. They attacked me from behind.
I tried to fight them off with the nisroh Worf gave me. I managed to
get off one of them off me but I think they injected me with some sort
of drug. 
PICARD: We believe that they were trying to extract strategic
information from your memory using a neurosomatic technique. 
RIKER: I was in a hospital, then I was back on the Enterprise. I was
back at the hospital. I kept shifting from place to place. I couldn't
tell what was real. 
TROI: Your mind must have created a defence mechanism that helped you
resist the neurosomatic process. Your unconscious fastened on to
elements of your real life in an attempt to keep you grounded, to keep
you sane. 
RIKER: The preparation for the mission, the play, those were recent
experiences, fresh in my mind. 
PICARD: You should get some rest. We can talk some more tomorrow. 
RIKER: There is one thing I'd like to do first. 
