RIKER SUNA WORF CREWMAN PICARD MAVEK CRUSHER DATA SYRUS

[Asylum Corridor]

(Data hauls Riker out into the corridor, where he
collapses) 
DATA: Commander, are you all right? 
(Riker breaks away and runs) 
RIKER: Help me! Help me! 
(the attendant and guard come round the corner. Riker grabs Worf's
phaser and runs behind them)
MAVEK: Who are you? Take them to Security Ward. 
(Data deals with the guard, and Worf takes out the attendant. Data
grabs Riker and drags him to -)

[Asylum common area]

WORF: Worf to Enterprise. The pattern enhancer has
been activated. Three to beam up. 
CREWMAN [OC]: Acknowledged.

[Sickbay]

CRUSHER: There's damage to the parietal lobe. It's
as if someone's trying to access his long-term memory. He's in a severe
state of neural shock. It's going to take him a while to recover. 
PICARD: Number One, do you remember what happened? You were abducted
during the mission to Tilonus Four. You were put into a psychiatric
hospital. 
RIKER: It's still bleeding. 
CRUSHER: It's minor. Don't worry about it. 
WORF: We have been checking on the hospital Administrator. 
RIKER: Mister Suna. 
PICARD: It appears that he's involved with one of the rival factions.
We believe that he is responsible for what happened to you. 
RIKER: It still hurts. It's bleeding again. Why? You just healed it. 
CRUSHER: Will, try to calm down. 
RIKER: This isn't real. 
(Riker knocks Worf down and takes his phaser) 
PICARD: What are you doing, Will? 
RIKER: If I'm right, you're not really here. This isn't a real phaser.
It's all a fantasy, and I'm going to end it, no matter what it takes. 
PICARD: But what if it isn't a fantasy? Are you willing to take that
chance? 
RIKER: You're right, I won't. But I'm going to find out what's real and
what's not. 
(and he points the phaser at his own chest) 
CRUSHER: Will, don't do it! 
(Riker fires, and the Sickbay shatters. Picard, Worf and Crusher are
replaced by)

[Asylum cell]

SUNA: How's he progressing? 
SYRUS: He's not responding to the Reflection therapy. His delusions are
growing more elaborate. 
MAVEK: He broke out of his cell last night. We found him running down a
corridor claiming people had come to take him back to his starship. 
SUNA: Then I see no other choice. We'll have to perform the synaptic
reconstruction. 
RIKER: I still have a phaser. Why do I still have a phaser? 
SUNA: It's not a phaser, it's a knife. You stole it from one of the
food trays. Give it to me. We don't want you to hurt yourself. 
(Riker's temple starts bleeding again.) 
RIKER: I don't believe you. 
(Mavek steps forward, Riker fires the phaser and he shatters like a
broken mirror) 
RIKER: If this is a knife, what happened to Mavek? 
SUNA: It's very complicated. I'll answer all of your questions, but
first I want you to put that down. 
RIKER: No. If this is a real phaser, then I was on the Enterprise. But
I fired it on myself, so I should be dead. None of this is real. I'm
setting this to level sixteen, wide field. That should destroy half of
this building. Unless, of course, this isn't a real phaser. 
(Riker fires at the wall, which shatters to show the audience watching
the play.)

[Theatre Asylum cell]

(Cyrus has disappeared) 
RIKER: It's all about you, isn't it? You're the only constant, the only
person in both places. 
SUNA: There's a lot more going on here than you realise. 
RIKER: This isn't real, either. What's happening to me? 
SUNA: Listen to me. We can still save you, but you must stop fighting
us. 
(Riker's head hurts) 
RIKER: You're lying. 
SUNA: Let me help you. 
RIKER: No! 
(the audience applaud) 
SUNA: I'm warning you. 
RIKER: No! 
(Riker pushes Suna, and the audience get to their feet, shouting Bravo.
Then Riker shatters, the scene shatters and )

