RIKER WORF CREWMAN PICARD TROI MAVEK CRUSHER DATA SYRUS

[Asylum cell]

(a columnar device has been brought into the cell) 
SYRUS: Close your eyes. Try to relax. Clear your mind. 
(the device sends out a beam which scans Riker's face) 
SYRUS: Now, think back to before you came to the hospital. But don't
try to remember specific incidents. Concentrate on how you felt. 
RIKER: I was afraid. 
(a second beam projects an image) 
TROI: Terrified. 
RIKER: She was on the ship with me. 
SYRUS: That's because she represents an aspect of your personality, and
there are many parts of you that still believe you're on that starship.

RIKER: Why her? 
SYRUS: I asked you to get in touch with your feelings, and this is the
part of you that responded. Talk to her about how you felt before you
came here. 
RIKER: You said I was terrified. Of what? 
TROI: I was in a dark place. Cold. Frightened. Someone was there. 
RIKER: Who? 
TROI: I felt threatened by them. Trapped 
SYRUS: You're doing very well. Now let's try to find out how you
responded to these feelings. Try to focus on your actions. You felt
trapped. What did you do? 
WORF: I was angry. They were attacking me. I fought back. 
TROI: I felt pain. 
WORF: I was injured. 
TROI: I began to panic. 
WORF: There was a struggle and I 
RIKER: You what? What happened? 
SYRUS: Try to associate your actions and emotions with logical
thoughts. What do you think caused you to act and feel this way? 
PICARD: It was cold and dark because I was outdoors at night. I was in
a narrow place. I was walking through an alley. 
TROI: I felt threatened. 
WORF: I was being watched. 
PICARD: Someone must have followed me into the alley. That's why I
started to walk faster. Someone grabbed me from behind. 
TROI: I panicked. 
WORF: I tried to fight them off. 
RIKER: How many of them were there? 
PICARD: Three. Humanoid. I only saw the face of one of them. 
RIKER: What did he look like? 
(and the spooky alien is sitting next to Riker) 
RIKER: I saw him on the ship too. I also saw him here in the hospital,
but I don't know who he is. 
SYRUS: That's Mister Suna, the hospital Administrator. You met him when
you first arrived here. 
RIKER: What part of me does he represent? 
SYRUS: I don't know. 
TROI: Don't believe this, Will. None of it's real. You're still with us
on the Enterprise. 
RIKER: Doctor? 
PICARD: We're your colleagues. You can trust us. Everything will be all
right 
SYRUS: Do you have anything to say to them? 
RIKER: You're all delusions. 
WORF: Do not listen to him, Commander. He is trying to trick you. You
are in danger here. Let us help you. 
TROI: Listen to me, Will. In all the years we've known each other, have
I ever lied to you? 
RIKER: No, please. Leave me alone! 
PICARD: Will, please. 
RIKER: No! 
(the device removes the images) 
SYRUS: You've taken a big step today. You've finally turned your back
on those delusions and all that they represent to you. We'll continue
later.

[Asylum common area]

(Riker is slowly eating a plate of mush when
Beverly enters in civilian clothes) 
RIKER: It's not real. 
(she sits down opposite him) 
CRUSHER: Commander, do you know who I am? Do you know where you are? If
you can't answer, just listen. You were on an undercover mission to
Tilonus Four. Something happened. We were told that you killed
somebody, but we do not believe it's true. We're being blocked at every
turn. The hospital Administrator denies you're here at all. We're
beginning to think that there's some kind of a conspiracy going on. I
had to come in here posing as a health official. Sit tight, Commander.
We're going to get you out of here. 
(she leaves) 
RIKER: Not real. 
[Asylum cell]

(Riker wakes to see someone forcing open his cell
door. Worf and Data enter) 
DATA: Commander. 
RIKER: Get away from me! 
WORF: Commander, you must come with us. You are in danger here. 
RIKER: No! 
WORF: Silence. 
[Asylum Corridor]

(Data hauls Riker out into the corridor, where he
collapses) 
DATA: Commander, are you all right? 
(Riker breaks away and runs) 
RIKER: Help me! Help me! 
(the attendant and guard come round the corner. Riker grabs Worf's
phaser and runs behind them)
MAVEK: Who are you? Take them to Security Ward. 
(Data deals with the guard, and Worf takes out the attendant. Data
grabs Riker and drags him to -)

[Asylum common area]

WORF: Worf to Enterprise. The pattern enhancer has
been activated. Three to beam up. 
CREWMAN [OC]: Acknowledged.

