RIKER CREWMAN WORF MEDIC NURSE CRUSHER LAFORGE
standing dialogue dagger working cc sickbay stasis cover understand

[Observation lounge]

(a map is on the wall monitor) 
WORF: This is the last known location of the research team. They had
occupied a small building in the south-west quarter of the city. You
will begin your search there. 
RIKER: The south-west quarter covers over two hundred square
kilometres. That's a lot of land for one man to cover. I guess I'd
better pack an extra pair of boots. 
WORF: This apparel will allow you to pass as a common merchant. This
Tilonian pendant is equipped with a communicator circuit. 
RIKER: It doesn't really match the outfit. 
WORF: I suggest you pay closer attention, Commander. Your life will be
at stake. Do you understand what I am saying? 
RIKER: Of course I do. 
WORF: Because you will be posing as a merchant, you will need to know
how to use the nisroh for the traditional bartering ceremony. 
(it is, of course, a dagger) 
WORF: You will be judged on your prowess with the blade. 
(Worf demonstrates, cutting Riker on the right temple) 
WORF: I am sorry, Commander! I did not intend 
RIKER: It's okay. I guess I really wasn't paying attention. I'd better
go to Sickbay. We'll continue this later.

[Sickbay]

CRUSHER: Boy, you will do anything to get out of
doing this play, but you're going to have to do something better than
this. 
RIKER: The play's not till tomorrow night. I've still got twenty four
hours. 
(she removes the cut) 
CRUSHER: Don't get any ideas. I will see you on stage at eighteen
hundred hours. 
RIKER: Right. That still hurts. 
CRUSHER: There was no damage to the nerves so you shouldn't be feeling
any pain. 
RIKER: Probably just a symptom of stage fright. 
(La Forge and a college bring in a badly burned engineer) 
CREWMAN: It hurts! 
LAFORGE: He was working on a conduit on deck thirty nine. A plasma
torch blew up in his hands. 
CREWMAN: It hurts! Please! 
CRUSHER: Hypospray. 
MEDIC: Yes, Doctor. 
(this dialogue gets very faint as we concentrate on Riker and the eyes
of the injured man) 
CRUSHER: Get me twenty cc's of opporozine. Treat the surface burns with
the anabolic stabiliser. 
MEDIC: Yes, Doctor. 
NURSE: Should we get a stasis unit? 
CRUSHER: Have one standing by just in case. Get me an epidermal sample.
Begin dermal regeneration. Have tissue regrowth standing by. I want him
sedated. 
