RIKER WORF JAYA TROI PICARD SYRUS
colleagues door associate people pathways known instability irreversible glad

[Corridor]

(he walks round a corner and meets) 
JAYA: Don't let them tell you you're crazy. 
(Riker runs the other way and dashes into )

[Riker's quarters]

(the door that shuts behind him is the asylum cell
door)

[Asylum cell]

RIKER: No! Let me out of here! Let me out of here!
Help me! (quiet) Help me. 
[Asylum common area]

RIKER: I need help. I don't want to be at the mercy
of these hallucinations any more. 
SYRUS: So you've accepted you're not from a starship? That it's all a
delusion? 
RIKER: All I know is when I go back to the ship, reality breaks apart.
Nothing makes sense. And then when it's over, it fades away like a
dream. But when I'm in the hospital, everything here seems real and I
remember everything that happens here. 
SYRUS: And what about how you got here? 
RIKER: Maybe I did kill someone. I don't know. But I want to know how. 
SYRUS: I'm glad to hear you say that, because I just had a long talk
with the hospital Administrator. He told me there are certain legal
questions that have to be resolved relatively soon. 
RIKER: Meaning? 
SYRUS: Meaning we can't keep you here much longer. We're the only
mental health facility on Tilonus Four. We have many people who need
our help. I don't want to put any undue stress on you but we have to
settle this case one way or another within the next few days. 
RIKER: What does that mean? 
SYRUS: You're facing a choice. We can try to help you remember what
happened using Reflection therapy. If it's successful, you would be fit
to stand trial. 
RIKER: Reflection therapy? 
SYRUS: It's a way for you to interact with the various facets of your
personality. We scan the regions of your brain that control emotions
and memory, and then project them holographically. 
RIKER: And what is the second option? 
SYRUS: A complete synaptic reconstruction of your cerebral cortex. 
RIKER: Surgery. 
SYRUS: We would neutralise the synaptic pathways responsible for your
mental instability. 
RIKER: It doesn't sound like you care for that option. 
SYRUS: I don't. The procedure is irreversible. You'd be left with a
completely altered personality. The person you are now would cease to
exist. 
RIKER: Option one is beginning to sound better. 
SYRUS: I agree. 
RIKER: Reflection therapy, then. When do we begin? 
SYRUS: This afternoon, if you're ready. I want you to understand that
this isn't going to be easy. You'll be interacting with aspects of your
psyche you've never dealt with before, and you may be disturbed by what
they have to say.

[Asylum cell]

(a columnar device has been brought into the cell) 
SYRUS: Close your eyes. Try to relax. Clear your mind. 
(the device sends out a beam which scans Riker's face) 
SYRUS: Now, think back to before you came to the hospital. But don't
try to remember specific incidents. Concentrate on how you felt. 
RIKER: I was afraid. 
(a second beam projects an image) 
TROI: Terrified. 
RIKER: She was on the ship with me. 
SYRUS: That's because she represents an aspect of your personality, and
there are many parts of you that still believe you're on that starship.

RIKER: Why her? 
SYRUS: I asked you to get in touch with your feelings, and this is the
part of you that responded. Talk to her about how you felt before you
came here. 
RIKER: You said I was terrified. Of what? 
TROI: I was in a dark place. Cold. Frightened. Someone was there. 
RIKER: Who? 
TROI: I felt threatened by them. Trapped 
SYRUS: You're doing very well. Now let's try to find out how you
responded to these feelings. Try to focus on your actions. You felt
trapped. What did you do? 
WORF: I was angry. They were attacking me. I fought back. 
TROI: I felt pain. 
WORF: I was injured. 
TROI: I began to panic. 
WORF: There was a struggle and I 
RIKER: You what? What happened? 
SYRUS: Try to associate your actions and emotions with logical
thoughts. What do you think caused you to act and feel this way? 
PICARD: It was cold and dark because I was outdoors at night. I was in
a narrow place. I was walking through an alley. 
TROI: I felt threatened. 
WORF: I was being watched. 
PICARD: Someone must have followed me into the alley. That's why I
started to walk faster. Someone grabbed me from behind. 
TROI: I panicked. 
WORF: I tried to fight them off. 
RIKER: How many of them were there? 
PICARD: Three. Humanoid. I only saw the face of one of them. 
RIKER: What did he look like? 
(and the spooky alien is sitting next to Riker) 
RIKER: I saw him on the ship too. I also saw him here in the hospital,
but I don't know who he is. 
SYRUS: That's Mister Suna, the hospital Administrator. You met him when
you first arrived here. 
RIKER: What part of me does he represent? 
SYRUS: I don't know. 
TROI: Don't believe this, Will. None of it's real. You're still with us
on the Enterprise. 
RIKER: Doctor? 
PICARD: We're your colleagues. You can trust us. Everything will be all
right 
SYRUS: Do you have anything to say to them? 
RIKER: You're all delusions. 
WORF: Do not listen to him, Commander. He is trying to trick you. You
are in danger here. Let us help you. 
TROI: Listen to me, Will. In all the years we've known each other, have
I ever lied to you? 
RIKER: No, please. Leave me alone! 
PICARD: Will, please. 
RIKER: No! 
(the device removes the images) 
SYRUS: You've taken a big step today. You've finally turned your back
on those delusions and all that they represent to you. We'll continue
later.

