JAYA RIKER SYRUS

[Turbolift]

(the doors open onto the asylum corridor) 
RIKER: It's not real. It's not real. 
(he closes his eyes and when he opens them again)

[Corridor]

(he walks round a corner and meets) 
JAYA: Don't let them tell you you're crazy. 
(Riker runs the other way and dashes into )

[Riker's quarters]

(the door that shuts behind him is the asylum cell
door)

[Asylum cell]

RIKER: No! Let me out of here! Let me out of here!
Help me! (quiet) Help me. 
[Asylum common area]

RIKER: I need help. I don't want to be at the mercy
of these hallucinations any more. 
SYRUS: So you've accepted you're not from a starship? That it's all a
delusion? 
RIKER: All I know is when I go back to the ship, reality breaks apart.
Nothing makes sense. And then when it's over, it fades away like a
dream. But when I'm in the hospital, everything here seems real and I
remember everything that happens here. 
SYRUS: And what about how you got here? 
RIKER: Maybe I did kill someone. I don't know. But I want to know how. 
SYRUS: I'm glad to hear you say that, because I just had a long talk
with the hospital Administrator. He told me there are certain legal
questions that have to be resolved relatively soon. 
RIKER: Meaning? 
SYRUS: Meaning we can't keep you here much longer. We're the only
mental health facility on Tilonus Four. We have many people who need
our help. I don't want to put any undue stress on you but we have to
settle this case one way or another within the next few days. 
RIKER: What does that mean? 
SYRUS: You're facing a choice. We can try to help you remember what
happened using Reflection therapy. If it's successful, you would be fit
to stand trial. 
RIKER: Reflection therapy? 
SYRUS: It's a way for you to interact with the various facets of your
personality. We scan the regions of your brain that control emotions
and memory, and then project them holographically. 
RIKER: And what is the second option? 
SYRUS: A complete synaptic reconstruction of your cerebral cortex. 
RIKER: Surgery. 
SYRUS: We would neutralise the synaptic pathways responsible for your
mental instability. 
RIKER: It doesn't sound like you care for that option. 
SYRUS: I don't. The procedure is irreversible. You'd be left with a
completely altered personality. The person you are now would cease to
exist. 
RIKER: Option one is beginning to sound better. 
SYRUS: I agree. 
RIKER: Reflection therapy, then. When do we begin? 
SYRUS: This afternoon, if you're ready. I want you to understand that
this isn't going to be easy. You'll be interacting with aspects of your
psyche you've never dealt with before, and you may be disturbed by what
they have to say.

