LIEUTENANT RIKER CRUSHER DATA
sir ve sickbay anybody detracted fatigue blood way think

[Theatre - Asylum cell]

DATA: Perhaps we should continue this discussion
next week 
RIKER: No. I want to talk about this now. 
DATA: You're starting to sound angry again. Maybe you need another
treatment. 
RIKER: What I need is to get out of this cell. I'm locked up in here
for days. You've controlled my every move. You've told me what to eat,
what to think, what to say. 
(Riker sees the attendant looking through the cell door. He checks that
there is an audience watching and the face is gone.) 
CRUSHER: (prompt) And when I show a glimmer of independent thought 
RIKER: And when I show a glimmer of independent thought, you strap me
down, inject me with drugs and call it a treatment. 
DATA: You're becoming agitated. 
RIKER: You bet I'm agitated! I may be surrounded by insanity, but I am
not insane. And there is nothing you 
(he's detracted by the sound of a door, and for a moment the audience
is gone) 
RIKER: What's happening? 
DATA: I can see we have a lot of work to do. 
(Data exits) 
RIKER: Nothing you can do will change the fact that I'm innocent. I'm
not crazy. I'm not 
(the alien officer is back between Picard and Riker) 
RIKER: You're the key to all this, aren't you? Who are you? Who are
you? 
LIEUTENANT: Lieutenant Suna, sir. 
CRUSHER: Will, are you all right? 
RIKER: I. Yes. I don't know 
CRUSHER: Why don't we get him to Sickbay. 
[Sickbay]

CRUSHER: There's nothing wrong with you
neurologically, and I can't find anything that could cause the
hallucinations. But your heart rate is way up and your blood pressure's
way above normal. And you're physically exhausted. 
RIKER: This is not a case of simple fatigue. 
CRUSHER: Will, you know that when you're under conditions of extreme
stress the mind can manufacture all kinds of things. 
RIKER: Drugs. They injected me with me drugs. See if the drug's in my
system. 
CRUSHER: Nothing. 
RIKER: In that dream they gave me drugs. Didn't anybody at the theatre
see anything strange happen during the performance? 
CRUSHER: No, nobody. Get some rest, Will. The play is over. Don't give
it another thought. 
RIKER: Right. 
