RIKER MAVEK SYRUS

[Asylum cell]

RIKER: Where am I? How did you get me off the ship?

SYRUS: The ship again? 
(he's the same race as our spooky alien) 
RIKER: What's going on? 
SYRUS: I understand this must be disturbing for you, but try to relax.
Tell me, where were you a moment ago? 
RIKER: I was on the Enterprise in the middle of a play. But it was
here. It was not real, it was on a stage. 
SYRUS: I can assure you this is not a stage. Do you remember your name?

RIKER: I'm Commander. Commander. A second ago I knew who I was. I was
on the ship. I was in a play. And now I'm having trouble remembering
anything. 
SYRUS: That's good. You're starting to come out of your delusional
state. 
RIKER: Delusional? It was not a delusion. I was there. 
SYRUS: We discussed this. Do you remember, we contacted Starfleet and
asked them about you? 
RIKER: No. 
SYRUS: We spoke with Admiral Budrow. 
RIKER: Starbase twenty nine. He had never heard of me, and they had no
officer that fit my description. 
SYRUS: That's right. Now, I want you to focus on who I am. Do you
remember me? 
RIKER: I don't know. 
SYRUS: I'm Doctor Syrus. Do you remember anything about where you are
now? 
RIKER: My head hurts. Somebody hit me. 
SYRUS: You tried to escape. You struggled with one of the attendants
and hit your head on a door. Do you remember that? 
RIKER: Yes. I remember that now. But I thought it was a Klingon who had
cut me with a knife. 
SYRUS: That's called transposition. You're projecting elements from
your delusions onto events that really happened. But that's good. There
was a time when you couldn't break away from your starship fantasy at
all. 
RIKER: Now, if what you say is true, where am I? 
SYRUS: You're in Ward forty seven of the Tilonus Institute for Mental
Disorders. 
RIKER: Why am I here? 
SYRUS: We'll talk more later. You don't have to remember everything
today. You're making excellent progress. 
(Syrus leaves) 
RIKER: Wait. 
(Riker explores his surprisingly spacious cell, with a mirror on the
wall) 
MAVEK [OC]: Good afternoon. I've got some good news for you. Doctor
Syrus suggested that you might enjoy a couple of hours in the common
area today. Well? 
RIKER: I guess so. 
(the attendant and an armed guard enter) 
MAVEK: I hope you're hungry. They're serving spiny lobe-fish today. 
RIKER: (re weapon) You won't need that. 
MAVEK: That's what you said the last time.

[Asylum Corridor]

(they walk slowly down the corridor. there is
distant screaming, and the Enterprise alien walks past too)

