RIKER DATA TROI CROWD

[Ten Forward]

RIKER: I've been on a lot of missions, seen a lot
of people injured, but I've never been affected by anything like this.
He was looking right at me. 
TROI: And that was disturbing to you. 
RIKER: It was as if he was blaming me for something. This wasn't the
only incident. The last several days, I've felt like everybody's
staring at me or talking about me. It's as if I was in Frame of Mind. 
TROI: Frame of Mind? 
RIKER: Beverly's play. Ever since I began rehearsing for the role, I've
been uneasy and restless. 
TROI: You're probably drawing on feelings that you're not used to
expressing. 
RIKER: Right. The play is full of disturbing images. People losing
their minds, being tortured by doctors. I can't get it out of my mind. 
TROI: Sometimes it's healthy to explore the darker sides of the psyche.
Jung called it owning your own shadow. This could be a sign that you're
a real actor. This is becoming more than just a role to you. 
RIKER: Maybe you're right. 
TROI: Don't be afraid of your darker side. Have fun with it. 
(Riker rubs his sore temple and sees the crewman he bumped into at the
turbolift) 
RIKER: Who was that? You just missed him. Is there a new Lieutenant on
board? 
TROI: I'm not sure. Do you want me to check the personnel logs? 
RIKER: No, I'll check them tomorrow. I'm going to bed early. The
performance is tomorrow night. I want to be up for it. 
TROI: I'm looking forward to it. Break a leg. 
RIKER: I'll try not to take you literally. 
(and they kiss goodnight) 
[Stage - Asylum cell]

(the performance) 
DATA: You're becoming agitated. 
RIKER: You bet I'm agitated! I may be surrounded by insanity, but I am
not insane. And nothing you or anyone else can say will change that.
And I won't let you or anyone else tell me that I am. You may be able
to destroy my mind, but you can't change the fact that I'm innocent. I
didn't kill that man! And that's what's driving you crazy. 
DATA: I can see we have a lot of work to do. 
(Data leaves stage left) 
RIKER: No matter you can say will the fact that I'm innocent! I'm not
crazy! I'm not crazy. (quietly) I'm not crazy. 
(lights down and up again, and standing ovation for Riker) 
CROWD: Bravo, bravo! Well done. Bravo. 
(and suddenly the alien is standing between Picard and Worf, then the
stage becomes - )

