LIEUTENANT RIKER CRUSHER DATA
week sees ve wakes sickbay actor insanity early suna

[Riker's quarters]

(and wakes up with a start in his own bed) 
(Later, Riker is getting made up for the play) 
RIKER: I was there, in Ward forty seven, just like in the play.
Everyone thought that I was insane, that I'd actually killed someone.
But it was all real. 
CRUSHER: Deanna mentioned that you went to bed early because you were
feeling a little anxious about the play, but I had no idea. You said
that in your dream, we performed the play. How'd it go? 
RIKER: It was a smash. We got a standing ovation. 
CRUSHER: Let's hope it goes that well tonight. Well, we have got one
hour before curtain. How are you feeling? 
RIKER: I feel like an actor. 
CRUSHER: Well, you're certainly beginning to look the part.

[Theatre - Asylum cell]

DATA: Perhaps we should continue this discussion
next week 
RIKER: No. I want to talk about this now. 
DATA: You're starting to sound angry again. Maybe you need another
treatment. 
RIKER: What I need is to get out of this cell. I'm locked up in here
for days. You've controlled my every move. You've told me what to eat,
what to think, what to say. 
(Riker sees the attendant looking through the cell door. He checks that
there is an audience watching and the face is gone.) 
CRUSHER: (prompt) And when I show a glimmer of independent thought 
RIKER: And when I show a glimmer of independent thought, you strap me
down, inject me with drugs and call it a treatment. 
DATA: You're becoming agitated. 
RIKER: You bet I'm agitated! I may be surrounded by insanity, but I am
not insane. And there is nothing you 
(he's detracted by the sound of a door, and for a moment the audience
is gone) 
RIKER: What's happening? 
DATA: I can see we have a lot of work to do. 
(Data exits) 
RIKER: Nothing you can do will change the fact that I'm innocent. I'm
not crazy. I'm not 
(the alien officer is back between Picard and Riker) 
RIKER: You're the key to all this, aren't you? Who are you? Who are
you? 
LIEUTENANT: Lieutenant Suna, sir. 
CRUSHER: Will, are you all right? 
RIKER: I. Yes. I don't know 
CRUSHER: Why don't we get him to Sickbay. 
