RIKER DATA MAVEK CROWD SYRUS

[Stage - Asylum cell]

(the performance) 
DATA: You're becoming agitated. 
RIKER: You bet I'm agitated! I may be surrounded by insanity, but I am
not insane. And nothing you or anyone else can say will change that.
And I won't let you or anyone else tell me that I am. You may be able
to destroy my mind, but you can't change the fact that I'm innocent. I
didn't kill that man! And that's what's driving you crazy. 
DATA: I can see we have a lot of work to do. 
(Data leaves stage left) 
RIKER: No matter you can say will the fact that I'm innocent! I'm not
crazy! I'm not crazy. (quietly) I'm not crazy. 
(lights down and up again, and standing ovation for Riker) 
CROWD: Bravo, bravo! Well done. Bravo. 
(and suddenly the alien is standing between Picard and Worf, then the
stage becomes - )

[Asylum cell]

RIKER: Where am I? How did you get me off the ship?

SYRUS: The ship again? 
(he's the same race as our spooky alien) 
RIKER: What's going on? 
SYRUS: I understand this must be disturbing for you, but try to relax.
Tell me, where were you a moment ago? 
RIKER: I was on the Enterprise in the middle of a play. But it was
here. It was not real, it was on a stage. 
SYRUS: I can assure you this is not a stage. Do you remember your name?

RIKER: I'm Commander. Commander. A second ago I knew who I was. I was
on the ship. I was in a play. And now I'm having trouble remembering
anything. 
SYRUS: That's good. You're starting to come out of your delusional
state. 
RIKER: Delusional? It was not a delusion. I was there. 
SYRUS: We discussed this. Do you remember, we contacted Starfleet and
asked them about you? 
RIKER: No. 
SYRUS: We spoke with Admiral Budrow. 
RIKER: Starbase twenty nine. He had never heard of me, and they had no
officer that fit my description. 
SYRUS: That's right. Now, I want you to focus on who I am. Do you
remember me? 
RIKER: I don't know. 
SYRUS: I'm Doctor Syrus. Do you remember anything about where you are
now? 
RIKER: My head hurts. Somebody hit me. 
SYRUS: You tried to escape. You struggled with one of the attendants
and hit your head on a door. Do you remember that? 
RIKER: Yes. I remember that now. But I thought it was a Klingon who had
cut me with a knife. 
SYRUS: That's called transposition. You're projecting elements from
your delusions onto events that really happened. But that's good. There
was a time when you couldn't break away from your starship fantasy at
all. 
RIKER: Now, if what you say is true, where am I? 
SYRUS: You're in Ward forty seven of the Tilonus Institute for Mental
Disorders. 
RIKER: Why am I here? 
SYRUS: We'll talk more later. You don't have to remember everything
today. You're making excellent progress. 
(Syrus leaves) 
RIKER: Wait. 
(Riker explores his surprisingly spacious cell, with a mirror on the
wall) 
MAVEK [OC]: Good afternoon. I've got some good news for you. Doctor
Syrus suggested that you might enjoy a couple of hours in the common
area today. Well? 
RIKER: I guess so. 
(the attendant and an armed guard enter) 
MAVEK: I hope you're hungry. They're serving spiny lobe-fish today. 
RIKER: (re weapon) You won't need that. 
MAVEK: That's what you said the last time.

