TROI LAFORGE CREWMAN MEDIC RIKER NURSE CRUSHER

[Sickbay]

CRUSHER: Boy, you will do anything to get out of
doing this play, but you're going to have to do something better than
this. 
RIKER: The play's not till tomorrow night. I've still got twenty four
hours. 
(she removes the cut) 
CRUSHER: Don't get any ideas. I will see you on stage at eighteen
hundred hours. 
RIKER: Right. That still hurts. 
CRUSHER: There was no damage to the nerves so you shouldn't be feeling
any pain. 
RIKER: Probably just a symptom of stage fright. 
(La Forge and a college bring in a badly burned engineer) 
CREWMAN: It hurts! 
LAFORGE: He was working on a conduit on deck thirty nine. A plasma
torch blew up in his hands. 
CREWMAN: It hurts! Please! 
CRUSHER: Hypospray. 
MEDIC: Yes, Doctor. 
(this dialogue gets very faint as we concentrate on Riker and the eyes
of the injured man) 
CRUSHER: Get me twenty cc's of opporozine. Treat the surface burns with
the anabolic stabiliser. 
MEDIC: Yes, Doctor. 
NURSE: Should we get a stasis unit? 
CRUSHER: Have one standing by just in case. Get me an epidermal sample.
Begin dermal regeneration. Have tissue regrowth standing by. I want him
sedated. 
[Ten Forward]

RIKER: I've been on a lot of missions, seen a lot
of people injured, but I've never been affected by anything like this.
He was looking right at me. 
TROI: And that was disturbing to you. 
RIKER: It was as if he was blaming me for something. This wasn't the
only incident. The last several days, I've felt like everybody's
staring at me or talking about me. It's as if I was in Frame of Mind. 
TROI: Frame of Mind? 
RIKER: Beverly's play. Ever since I began rehearsing for the role, I've
been uneasy and restless. 
TROI: You're probably drawing on feelings that you're not used to
expressing. 
RIKER: Right. The play is full of disturbing images. People losing
their minds, being tortured by doctors. I can't get it out of my mind. 
TROI: Sometimes it's healthy to explore the darker sides of the psyche.
Jung called it owning your own shadow. This could be a sign that you're
a real actor. This is becoming more than just a role to you. 
RIKER: Maybe you're right. 
TROI: Don't be afraid of your darker side. Have fun with it. 
(Riker rubs his sore temple and sees the crewman he bumped into at the
turbolift) 
RIKER: Who was that? You just missed him. Is there a new Lieutenant on
board? 
TROI: I'm not sure. Do you want me to check the personnel logs? 
RIKER: No, I'll check them tomorrow. I'm going to bed early. The
performance is tomorrow night. I want to be up for it. 
TROI: I'm looking forward to it. Break a leg. 
RIKER: I'll try not to take you literally. 
(and they kiss goodnight) 
