T'PAN KURAK CHRISTOPHER CRUSHER [OC] OGAWA CRUSHER
suspects right threats thank scan ones persisted scientist suggesting

[Morgue]

OGAWA: I don't understand, Doctor. Isn't it pretty
clear that Reyga died from a plasma discharge? 
CRUSHER: It's won't be clear until after an autopsy. As far as I know,
he could have been poisoned and someone put the plasma infuser in his
hand after he died. 
OGAWA: You think he was murdered? 
CRUSHER: I'm not discounting that possibility. The point is, without a
complete autopsy, there's no way of knowing for certain. 
OGAWA: Why won't the Ferengi allow it? 
CRUSHER: It has to do with their death rituals. The body can't be
violated before it's buried. Apparently the family is more concerned
about ritual than finding out the truth about how he died. I just can't
get the information I need from a tricorder scan. Suspects. If Reyga
didn't kill himself. someone else did. So who are the possible
suspects? 
OGAWA: Whoever had something to gain from his death. 
CRUSHER: And the only ones to fit that category are the other
scientists.

[Christopher's quarters]

CHRISTOPHER: I'm afraid I don't understand, Doctor.
Do you have evidence that Reyga was murdered? 
CRUSHER: No, but I can't believe he took his own life and I would like
to explore any possibilities a bit further. 
T'PAN: What reason would anyone have to kill him? 
CRUSHER: I was wondering if you might have any thoughts along that
line. 
T'PAN: I see. You are suggesting that I had such a motive. 
CRUSHER: If Reyga's technology had been successful, you might have been
displaced as the preeminent scientist in subspace technology. 
T'PAN: But since it wasn't successful, it is illogical to conclude that
I had such a motive, isn't it. 
CHRISTOPHER: I must say I resent this, Doctor. We've all been shocked
by recent events. I don't see that there's anything to gain by dragging
us through these insinuations. 
CRUSHER: I'm just trying to uncover the truth, and I need your help to
do it. Have you seen or heard anything that might suggest that someone
else had a motive? 
CHRISTOPHER: We are trying to forget the unpleasantness of these last
several days, not have them stirred up again. I find it disturbing that
you would try to foster suspicions among us. 
CRUSHER: Forgive me, I don't mean to upset you, but have you noticed
anything unusual? 
CHRISTOPHER: I find your question distasteful. 
CRUSHER: Is there something you're not telling me? 
CHRISTOPHER: I'm sure it's nothing. I was in the storage room of the
science laboratory yesterday. Kurak was working in the lab. Reyga came
in and they got into, well, an argument. 
CRUSHER: About what? 
CHRISTOPHER: I don't know. I couldn't hear clearly until they started
to shout at one other. Then I heard Kurak say that Reyga had insulted
her honour, and no Klingon would stand for that. I do not believe she
killed him. These were words spoken in the heat of anger. Kurak is
volatile, passionate, but not a killer. And, Doctor, neither are we. 
CRUSHER: Thank you. 
CRUSHER [OC]: I knew he might be right about Kurak. Klingons make
threats as a matter of course. On the other hand, sometimes they follow
through.

[Science lab]

CRUSHER: That looks like one of Doctor Reyga's
shield configurations. 
KURAK: Yes. Personal research. 
CRUSHER: Even though this technology failed? 
KURAK: No one has denied there is potential in the idea. 
CRUSHER: Which you're now free to develop. 
KURAK: Are you accusing me of something? 
CRUSHER: No, but I want to know why you threatened Doctor Reyga. 
KURAK: I warned Doctor Reyga that if he persisted with his slander, he
would pay the price. 
CRUSHER: What was his accusation? 
KURAK: I will not repeat his lies. 
CRUSHER: Were they lies? 
KURAK: Be careful, Doctor. Insulting the honour of a Klingon can be
extremely dangerous. 
CRUSHER: Did Reyga make that mistake? 
(Kurak pushes Crusher and she hits the wall) 
KURAK: I have heard enough accusations! Now I will have your silence. 
CRUSHER: Well, you're going to have to throw me a lot harder than that
if you want to get it. Now, what did he accuse you of? 
KURAK: Sabotage. 
CRUSHER: Sabotage of the metaphasic shield? Was that why it failed? 
KURAK: How would I know? 
CRUSHER: Did you sabotage the project? 
KURAK: No. I did not. Goodbye, Doctor. 
CRUSHER [OC]: Kurak refused to say anything more. I wasn't sure if her
silence was motivated by guilt or just Klingon pride. 
