PICARD REYGA GUINAN CRUSHER [OC] OGAWA CRUSHER DATA
unusual right caused diagnostic anatomy radial world extremely species

[Crusher's quarters]

CRUSHER: So that was my first experience as a
scientific diplomat. A complete failure. I don't understand. 
GUINAN: No? 
CRUSHER: I mean, I've lost patients before. 
GUINAN: But this was different. 
CRUSHER: Mmm. 
GUINAN: You know, when you're a doctor and you have patients, you're in
control. But when you send someone out on a mission, all you can do is
sit and watch. 
CRUSHER: That's what I felt. Helpless. 
GUINAN: Anybody would. Don't be too hard on yourself. 
CRUSHER: You know, what you say reminds me of something Jean-Luc said
to me when I was doing the autopsy on Jo'Bril. 
[Sickbay]

CRUSHER [OC]: It was probably the most puzzling
autopsy I've ever performed, and the most frustrating, because
Jo'Bril's anatomy was unlike any I'd encountered, and I've run into
some unusual specimens. 
PICARD: How's it going? 
CRUSHER: I've never run into a humanoid species like this before. His
internal physiology's baffling. He doesn't seem to have any discrete
organs, at least not in the traditional sense. Practically every system
is equally distributed throughout the body. That kind of physiology
should make him incredibly resistant to injury, so whatever killed him
must have occurred at the cellular level. 
PICARD: Do you have any idea what it was? 
CRUSHER: No. Something caused a massive system-wide failure, but I
don't know what. 
PICARD: Were the solar radiation levels high enough to kill him? 
CRUSHER: His exposure to the star's radiation was minimal. It's all
very strange. There's no apparent cause of death. 
OGAWA: Doctor, here's the result of the tissue scan you asked for. 
CRUSHER: That's odd. The rate of cellular decay is extremely low. 
PICARD: Beverly, the answers will come. 
CRUSHER: Maybe even minimal exposure to the radiation altered the
cellular physiology. 
PICARD: You know, you've been at this for hours. You might think more
clearly if you got a good night's sleep. 
CRUSHER: I can't sleep. I want to find out what killed him. I owe that
to Doctor Reyga. 
PICARD: You're doing it for Doctor Reyga, or yourself? 
CRUSHER: What do you mean? 
PICARD: You're the loneliest person in the world right now. No one can
say anything, no one can do anything that will help. And you think that
it will never go away. And you're right, it won't. But you can get used
to it. I know it doesn't feel like that now, but you can. 
CRUSHER [OC]: At the time, I was too preoccupied with my problems to
understand what he was saying. I wasn't thinking about the rest of my
life. I was trying to make sense of what had happened. 
[Shuttlecraft]

CRUSHER [OC]: And I wasn't alone. Jo'Bril's death
had raised a lot of questions. Geordi and Data were determined to find
out what had gone wrong, and they were busy going over every millimetre
of the shuttle, with Doctor Reyga's help. 
(Shuttlecraft Justman is getting a thorough going-over) 
REYGA: Run another diagnostic on the EPS flow regulator. 
DATA: The flow regulator is functioning properly. 
REYGA: What about the field emitter coil? Has it maintained polarity? 
DATA: Yes, Doctor. 
REYGA: The radial force compensator? 
DATA: I am unable to locate any malfunction. All systems are operating
according to your design specifications. 
