RIKER CRUSHER DATA OGAWA COMPUTER

 [Shuttlecraft]

CRUSHER: What are you doing, Data? 
DATA: I am running additional diagnostics to make certain there was no
permanent radiation damage to the shuttlecraft hull. 
CRUSHER: You've studied Doctor Reyga's shield system. Do you think it
could have been sabotaged? 
DATA: There was no evidence to suggest sabotage. 
CRUSHER: Just consider the possibility. 
DATA: The system interlocks prevent access to the circuitry unless the
shield emitter is active. Any attempt to sabotage the device would have
to be made while the shield was in operation. 
CRUSHER: The only time the shield was active was during Jo'Bril's test
flight. 
DATA: That is correct. It seems unlikely that Jo'Bril would perform
sabotage which would result in his own death. 
CRUSHER: I agree. Would it be possible to sabotage the shuttle by
remote, during the flight? 
DATA: A phased ionic pulse beamed directly into the metaphasic
projection matrix would result in a temporary system malfunction. 
CRUSHER: Where on the Enterprise could you generate a phased ionic
pulse? 
DATA: Such a pulse could be initiated from the lateral sensor arrays,
science labs one, four, and sixteen, or any of the bridge science
stations. 
CRUSHER: Let's assume for the moment that someone did send out a phased
ionic pulse.
What would have happened inside the shuttle? 
DATA: A tetryon field would be formed briefly in the cabin, temporarily
disrupting the metaphasic shield. 
CRUSHER: A tetryon field? If Jo'Bril was exposed to a tetryon field, it
might have left residual traces in his tissue. Thanks, Data.

[Corridor]

RIKER: Beverly? 
CRUSHER: Yes? 
RIKER: We've arranged for a shuttle to take you to Starbase twenty
three. You can leave the ship at oh seven hundred hours tomorrow. 
CRUSHER: Thank you. 
RIKER: About everything that's going on. I'm sorry. I'm sure it will
all work out. 
CRUSHER: Yes, of course. 
RIKER: You know the inquiry's just a formality, and Captain Picard will
do everything he can for you. 
CRUSHER: I'm sure that'll help. 
RIKER: But if you do anything foolish before that inquiry. it's not
going to look good for you. 
CRUSHER: I don't know what you mean. 
RIKER: I think you do know what I mean. The best thing for you to do
right now is go to your quarters and read a good book. If you do
anything to make the situation any worse it's going to be that much
harder on you. 
CRUSHER: Thank you, Commander. Your concern is noted. 
RIKER: Beverly. I'm saying this to you as a friend. 
CRUSHER: Yes, Will, I know. But, as a friend, please try to understand.
I can't quit now and I don't want you to become involved in this. 
[Crusher's office]

CRUSHER: Computer, access ship's medical logs and
download current autopsy files. 
COMPUTER: Autopsy files are restricted to active medical personnel
only. Access denied. 
CRUSHER: Damn. 
OGAWA: Doctor Crusher? What do you need the autopsy files for? 
CRUSHER: Don't worry. I know I'm not supposed to be here. I'll go. 
OGAWA: Computer, access autopsy files. 
OGAWA: I assume you'll need the files on Doctor Reyga and Jo'Bril? 
CRUSHER: Alyssa. 
OGAWA: I can see how important this is to you. 
CRUSHER: I don't want you to get involved in this. 
OGAWA: Is that an order, Doctor? 
CRUSHER: Yes. 
OGAWA: Too bad you're not my boss now. 
CRUSHER: Thank you. 
OGAWA: So what do we do now? 
CRUSHER: First of all, I want to review Jo'Bril's physiology records.
Then I want to take another look at the body. I want to see if there's
any tetryon traces. 
OGAWA: Let's do it.

