PICARD GUINAN CRUSHER DATA CRUSHER [OC]
briefly sure matrix family start perform science sabotaged time

[Picard's quarters]

PICARD: Come. Beverly. 
CRUSHER: Jean-Luc, I want to tell you something that you need to know,
but you're not going to like it. I did an autopsy on Doctor Reyga. 
PICARD: What did you find? 
CRUSHER: Nothing. I'm sorry. I know I shouldn't have done it. 
PICARD: You most certainly should not. I made it clear to you that the
family would not allow it. Not only have you disobeyed my orders, but
you've interfered in the burial rituals of another culture. You've put
both of us in a very difficult position. The family will have to be
notified. I don't doubt that they will react strongly. If the Ferengi
government becomes involved, as I'm certain they will, this could have
very significant repercussions. I'm not sure how much I can protect
you. 
CRUSHER: You don't have to, Jean-Luc. I knew what I was doing and I'm
prepared to accept the consequences. 
CRUSHER [OC]: I could tell that he was terribly disappointed in me, and
that was almost the hardest part of all. 
[Crusher's quarters]

CRUSHER: So that's the story. That's how I ended my
career. 
GUINAN: Backhand volley. 
CRUSHER: What? 
GUINAN: That's how I did it. Geordi kept hitting to my backhand at the
net. 
CRUSHER: Guinan, two people died on this ship. Two lives that ended
horribly and you're worried about your tennis game? 
GUINAN: Are you upset? 
CRUSHER: I don't know. You tell me. You're supposed to be wise. 
GUINAN: Well, if you are upset, why are you moping around here? Why
don't you do something about it? 
CRUSHER: I've done everything I could think of. It got me fired. 
GUINAN: Do you think Doctor Reyga killed himself? 
CRUSHER: No. 
GUINAN: Do you think there's a murderer on board? 
CRUSHER: Yes. 
GUINAN: Then why are you still sitting here? 
CRUSHER: Don't you get it? If I start digging around again. 
GUINAN: You could be relieved of duty.

Chief Medical Officer's log, personal, stardate
46830.1. I'll be leaving the ship tomorrow to attend the board of
inquiry. That means I have less than twenty four hours to get to the
bottom of this mystery. 
 [Shuttlecraft]

CRUSHER: What are you doing, Data? 
DATA: I am running additional diagnostics to make certain there was no
permanent radiation damage to the shuttlecraft hull. 
CRUSHER: You've studied Doctor Reyga's shield system. Do you think it
could have been sabotaged? 
DATA: There was no evidence to suggest sabotage. 
CRUSHER: Just consider the possibility. 
DATA: The system interlocks prevent access to the circuitry unless the
shield emitter is active. Any attempt to sabotage the device would have
to be made while the shield was in operation. 
CRUSHER: The only time the shield was active was during Jo'Bril's test
flight. 
DATA: That is correct. It seems unlikely that Jo'Bril would perform
sabotage which would result in his own death. 
CRUSHER: I agree. Would it be possible to sabotage the shuttle by
remote, during the flight? 
DATA: A phased ionic pulse beamed directly into the metaphasic
projection matrix would result in a temporary system malfunction. 
CRUSHER: Where on the Enterprise could you generate a phased ionic
pulse? 
DATA: Such a pulse could be initiated from the lateral sensor arrays,
science labs one, four, and sixteen, or any of the bridge science
stations. 
CRUSHER: Let's assume for the moment that someone did send out a phased
ionic pulse.
What would have happened inside the shuttle? 
DATA: A tetryon field would be formed briefly in the cabin, temporarily
disrupting the metaphasic shield. 
CRUSHER: A tetryon field? If Jo'Bril was exposed to a tetryon field, it
might have left residual traces in his tissue. Thanks, Data.

