TPAN KURAK REYGA JOBRIL CHRISTOPHER CRUSHER

[Science lab]

(and back we go into the story) 
CRUSHER [OC]: But of all the scientists I invited, only four were
interested in hearing about Doctor Reyga's invention. And I wasn't
altogether sure they were going to be compatible. Kurak was a warp
field specialist on the Klingon Homeworld. I don't think Klingons
regard scientists very highly. She always seemed a little defensive.
Doctor T'Pan is practically a legend in the field of subspace
morphology. She's been the director of the Vulcan Science Academy for
fifteen years. Her husband, Doctor Christopher, came with her. I didn't
know much about him, but he was some kind of subspace theoretician.
Jo'Bril was a Takaran, the first one I'd ever met. I had no idea what
to expect from him. And then there was Doctor Reyga, the Ferengi
scientist. 
REYGA: You've all seen my experimental data. The metaphasic shield has
been proven. 
T'PAN: Forgive my scepticism, Doctor, but your claims are somewhat
extravagant. Protect a shuttle within a star's corona? Not even your
own government believes it can be done. 
CRUSHER: That's why I've invited you all here. You have the vision to
see the potential of Doctor Reyga's metaphasic shield. 
REYGA: I need help to develop the shield. I am willing to grant
exclusive rights to whoever provides the necessary resources. 
CRUSHER: I think you all realise what this shielding process could
mean. The possibilities of exploration and research are endless. 
KURAK: But only if it works. I'm not convinced that this metaphasic
shield can withstand either the temperature or the radiation it would
be exposed to. 
REYGA: But it has! Not only in countless simulations, but in a field
test that I conducted myself. 
KURAK: For which, of course, we have only your word. 
REYGA: Are you accusing me of falsifying my data? 
KURAK: You would not be the first scientist to manipulate experimental
data to his own advantage. 
CRUSHER: Doctor Reyga has offered to demonstrate his invention. He's
outfitted one of our shuttles with his metaphasic shield. 
REYGA: I will take it into the corona of the star Vaytan. 
CHRISTOPHER: That star has a superdense corona. The shuttle would be
subjected to particularly intense radiation. Perhaps it would be wise
to choose a star of lesser magnitude. 
T'PAN: I agree. My own research into solar energy transfer suggests
that Vaytan's corona is extremely unstable. 
REYGA: What better way to test my invention? I'm not concerned. The
shield will hold. 
KURAK: I for one would feel more comfortable if someone else flew the
shuttle. Someone more objective. 
JO'BRIL: I will volunteer for that task. I've spent years studying
solar plasma reactions. The thought of being able to penetrate a star's
corona. It is a remarkable opportunity. I've studied your data, Doctor
Reyga. I think you're on solid scientific ground. 
KURAK: I do not share your optimism, Doctor Jo'Bril, but if you wish to
pilot the craft, I would be more confident in your assessment of the
shield than Doctor Reyga's. 
CHRISTOPHER: I agree. At this point, we need an impartial evaluation. 
CRUSHER: We'll need to be sure that you're familiar with the shuttle's
controls and Doctor Reyga's modifications. 
JO'BRIL: I'm an accomplished pilot. It will be no problem. 
CRUSHER: Well, what do you think? 
REYGA: I am gratified, Doctor Jo'Bril. And there will be no difficulty
in operating the metaphasic controls. The system will activate
automatically as you approach the star. 
CRUSHER: Well, then. We'll proceed with the demonstration at fifteen
hundred hours. We'll meet on the Bridge. 
CRUSHER [OC]: It wasn't exactly an enthusiastic response to Doctor
Reyga's technology, but given the circumstances and the scientist's
quarrelsome personalities, I was quite pleased. 
CRUSHER: I thought that went well, didn't you? 
REYGA: Thanks to you, Doctor. 
CRUSHER: I didn't do anything. 
