LAFORGE WORF KURAK REYGA CHRISTOPHER CRUSHER DATA TPAN

[Shuttlecraft]

CRUSHER [OC]: And I wasn't alone. Jo'Bril's death
had raised a lot of questions. Geordi and Data were determined to find
out what had gone wrong, and they were busy going over every millimetre
of the shuttle, with Doctor Reyga's help. 
(Shuttlecraft Justman is getting a thorough going-over) 
REYGA: Run another diagnostic on the EPS flow regulator. 
DATA: The flow regulator is functioning properly. 
REYGA: What about the field emitter coil? Has it maintained polarity? 
DATA: Yes, Doctor. 
REYGA: The radial force compensator? 
DATA: I am unable to locate any malfunction. All systems are operating
according to your design specifications. 
[Shuttlebay]

CRUSHER: Did you find anything wrong? 
REYGA: No. I don't understand it. There must be something we've
overlooked. 
LAFORGE: I found micro-crystalline damage to the hull, which confirms
that your shield was breached by a burst of baryonic radiation. 
CRUSHER: Were the levels high enough to cause damage to organic tissue?

LAFORGE: I don't know. 
DATA: Perhaps there was an unexpected interaction between the solar
radiation and the metaphasic shield. 
REYGA: No, that's not possible. I anticipated every contingency. 
LAFORGE: Then maybe Jo'Bril ran into something in the corona which you
didn't anticipate, and your shield just wasn't able to protect him from
it. 
REYGA: My shield was not at fault. CRUSHER [OC]: Reyga seemed angry,
but I knew it was because he was so disappointed. Everything he'd
worked for, hoped for, was slipping away.

 [Science lab]

CRUSHER [OC]: And that made what I had to do next
even harder. 
CRUSHER: I'm sure you all understand that in light of what happened, I
think it would be inappropriate to continue further testing. Perhaps if
Doctor Reyga has perfected his metaphasic technology, we can try again.

REYGA: Doctor Crusher, please, if I could have a little more time to
investigate I know I could find what went wrong. 
CHRISTOPHER: But that won't bring back Jo'Bril, will it? 
T'PAN: I do not believe the shield will ever work. Its very concept is
flawed. 
REYGA: Just one more test. 
KURAK: Whom do you propose we sacrifice next? 
REYGA: I will pilot the shuttle myself. 
CRUSHER: I'm sorry. As Chief Medical Officer I'm responsible for the
health and safety of all the people aboard. I will not authorise any
further tests. 
REYGA: Very well. But I will prove myself. 
CRUSHER [OC]: I couldn't help but admire his tenacity. He just wasn't
going to accept defeat. And I hoped he would prove himself. But that
was the last time I saw him alive.
(later, Reyga is lying flat out on the floor. Security are present) 
CRUSHER [OC]: We'd gone to Science Lab four when the ship's sensors
registered a sizable plasma surge there. 
CRUSHER: Look at this. A plasma infuser. It's completely discharged.
The blast must have killed him instantly. 
WORF: Perhaps he could not live with the failure of his invention and
took his own life. 
CRUSHER: Or perhaps someone just wanted it to look that way. Isn't it
odd that he could hold on so tightly to the infuser when it was
discharged. The normal reflex would have been to drop it. 
WORF: The plasma shock could have affected his nervous system. He may
have reacted by gripping tighter. 
CRUSHER: I'll know for certain when I do the autopsy. 
WORF: Is your examination complete, Doctor? 
CRUSHER: For now. Please have his body taken to the morgue. 
WORF: Very well. 
CRUSHER [OC]: I remembered his passion and commitment, and his
determination to prove himself, and I was sure that this man had not
taken his own life. If anyone could understand that, I knew it would be
Captain Picard. 
