TROI WORF PICARD RIKER CRUSHER [on viewscreen] COMPUTER JO'BRIL CRUSHER DATA
parameters navigational weapon object controls reason concerned betting away

[Bridge]

TROI: Captain, I'm concerned about Beverly. I've
tried several times to talk to her, but she's been avoiding me. 
PICARD: I'm not surprised. 
TROI: This entire experience has been 
DATA: Captain, an unscheduled launch is taking place in Shuttlebay two.

RIKER: No idea. No one's filed a flight plan. 
PICARD: On screen. 
(a shuttle takes off) 
RIKER: That's the Justman, the shuttle Reyga modified. 
PICARD: Open a hailing frequency. 
(Beverly's face on the viewscreen) 
PICARD: Doctor Crusher, what do you think you're doing? 
CRUSHER [on viewscreen]: Testing a theory, Captain. 
PICARD: A theory? 
CRUSHER [on viewscreen]: I think Doctor Reyga's shield does work. 
PICARD: Return to the ship immediately. 
CRUSHER [on viewscreen]: I'm sorry. 
PICARD: Mister Worf, override the shuttle's computer. Return it to the
shuttlebay. 
WORF: Aye, sir. Sir, she has isolated her navigational control. It will
not be possible to establish remote operation. 
RIKER: Get a tractor beam on her. 
WORF: I cannot establish a lock. She is too close to the star. Solar
interference is too high. 
PICARD: Mister Data, what is her heading? 
DATA: Bearing two seven one mark four, sir. She is headed into the
sun's corona. 
CRUSHER [on viewscreen]: Computer, begin monitoring external
temperature. 
COMPUTER: External temperature zero point eight million Kelvins and
rising. 
PICARD: Beverly, what do you hope to accomplish? 
CRUSHER [on viewscreen]: I think Doctor Reyga was right about his
shield. The only reason it failed is because it was sabotaged, and I'm
going to prove it. 
PICARD: But you can't be certain of that. You're betting your life on a
hypothesis. 
CRUSHER [on viewscreen]: I'm not wrong. 
COMPUTER: External temperature one point nine million Kelvins. 
DATA: Sir, the shuttle is entering the corona. 
PICARD: Beverly, what's happening? 
CRUSHER [on viewscreen]: I'm all right. Computer, shield status? 
COMPUTER: Metaphasic shield holding. All systems within normal
operating parameters. 
CRUSHER [on viewscreen]: Congratulations, Doctor Reyga. You did it.
Captain, I want you to post security guards around the three visiting
scientists. One of them has to be responsible for sabotaging the first
test. I think if we 
WORF: Sir, we have lost contact.

[Shuttlecraft]

CRUSHER: Crusher to Enterprise. I've lost you. Come
in. Justman to Enterprise. Come in. 
(a storage locker opens) 
CRUSHER: Enterprise, do you hear me? Come in. JO'BRIL: They cannot hear
you. I have severed communications. 
CRUSHER: How can you be alive? 
JO'BRIL: I'd think after your autopsy on me, you'd know the answer to
that. 
CRUSHER: The slow rate of cellular decay. 
JO'BRIL: It is a natural result of physiostasis. Takarans can control
their physiology at a cellular level. We can create the appearance of
death. 
CRUSHER: In the morgue, you were conscious the whole time. You heard
everything we said. You knew everything we were going to do. 
JO'BRIL: Move away. Move away. 
CRUSHER: What are you doing? 
JO'BRIL: I'm sending out a transient subspace signal. It will obscure
the shuttle from the Enterprise sensors and they will interpret it as a
warp engine breach. They will believe that you have been destroyed. I'd
like to thank you, Doctor. 
CRUSHER: For what? 
JO'BRIL: All I wanted to do was discredit Reyga so that no one would
pursue his technology except me. But you have given me more than I
could have hoped. Now I can take the prototype itself back to Takara,
where I will develop it into a weapon. All I have to do is wait here
until the Enterprise is convinced you are dead, and leaves. 
(Beverly knocks the phaser from his hand and starts tapping at the
controls. The shuttle lurches, knocking Jo'Bril off his feet. The
shuttle goes deeper into the sun as they wrestle for the weapon.
Beverly wins, and shoots a hole right through Jo'Bril, but it doesn't
stop him. Finally she disintegrates him and returns to the shuttle's
controls.) 
[Bridge]

DATA: Captain, there is no indication of debris.
However, the subspace signal indicates a warp engine breach. 
PICARD: All right, begin a phase one search, starting with the
shuttlecraft's last known coordinates. Plot a proximity course toward
the star. 
WORF: Sir, we are picking up an object emerging from the corona. 
CRUSHER [on viewscreen]: Crusher to Enterprise. I'm all right.
Returning to the ship. And I finally have the answers I've been looking
for.

Chief Medical Officer's log, stardate 46831.2. I
have been reinstated and I will be resuming my duties shortly. In the
meantime, I have a personal matter to attend to.

