WORF PICARD T'PAN KURAK REYGA CHRISTOPHER CRUSHER [OC] OGAWA CRUSHER
suspects sacrifice testing surge try rituals buried sense captain

 [Science lab]

CRUSHER [OC]: And that made what I had to do next
even harder. 
CRUSHER: I'm sure you all understand that in light of what happened, I
think it would be inappropriate to continue further testing. Perhaps if
Doctor Reyga has perfected his metaphasic technology, we can try again.

REYGA: Doctor Crusher, please, if I could have a little more time to
investigate I know I could find what went wrong. 
CHRISTOPHER: But that won't bring back Jo'Bril, will it? 
T'PAN: I do not believe the shield will ever work. Its very concept is
flawed. 
REYGA: Just one more test. 
KURAK: Whom do you propose we sacrifice next? 
REYGA: I will pilot the shuttle myself. 
CRUSHER: I'm sorry. As Chief Medical Officer I'm responsible for the
health and safety of all the people aboard. I will not authorise any
further tests. 
REYGA: Very well. But I will prove myself. 
CRUSHER [OC]: I couldn't help but admire his tenacity. He just wasn't
going to accept defeat. And I hoped he would prove himself. But that
was the last time I saw him alive.
(later, Reyga is lying flat out on the floor. Security are present) 
CRUSHER [OC]: We'd gone to Science Lab four when the ship's sensors
registered a sizable plasma surge there. 
CRUSHER: Look at this. A plasma infuser. It's completely discharged.
The blast must have killed him instantly. 
WORF: Perhaps he could not live with the failure of his invention and
took his own life. 
CRUSHER: Or perhaps someone just wanted it to look that way. Isn't it
odd that he could hold on so tightly to the infuser when it was
discharged. The normal reflex would have been to drop it. 
WORF: The plasma shock could have affected his nervous system. He may
have reacted by gripping tighter. 
CRUSHER: I'll know for certain when I do the autopsy. 
WORF: Is your examination complete, Doctor? 
CRUSHER: For now. Please have his body taken to the morgue. 
WORF: Very well. 
CRUSHER [OC]: I remembered his passion and commitment, and his
determination to prove himself, and I was sure that this man had not
taken his own life. If anyone could understand that, I knew it would be
Captain Picard. 
[Ready room]

CRUSHER: Jean-Luc, I was with him right before he
died. He was not suicidal. 
PICARD: But by your own admission, Reyga was a difficult man to
understand. Isn't it possible that he was simply masking his feelings? 
CRUSHER: I don't think so. He was disappointed at the failure of his
device and certainly he was upset at Jo'Bril's death, but I never got
the sense that he was ready to end his own life. And if that's true,
then someone else killed him. 
PICARD: Do you have any evidence of that? 
CRUSHER: Not yet. But when I finished the autopsy, I hope I'll have it.

PICARD: Beverly. I'm afraid there will be no autopsy. The family has
already been contacted. They insist that the body must not be touched
until they perform the Ferengi death ritual. 
CRUSHER: But there's a question as to the circumstances of his death. 
PICARD: To the family that's irrelevant. 
CRUSHER: Let me speak with them. 
PICARD: Please believe me, they're adamant. We are scheduled to
rendezvous with a Ferengi ship in seventeen hours. They will pick up
Reyga's body then. I'm sorry, there will be no autopsy. 
CRUSHER: Jean-Luc, I cannot just drop this. Don't you see? There may
have been a murder. 
PICARD: Then you will have to find evidence some way other than an
autopsy.

[Morgue]

OGAWA: I don't understand, Doctor. Isn't it pretty
clear that Reyga died from a plasma discharge? 
CRUSHER: It's won't be clear until after an autopsy. As far as I know,
he could have been poisoned and someone put the plasma infuser in his
hand after he died. 
OGAWA: You think he was murdered? 
CRUSHER: I'm not discounting that possibility. The point is, without a
complete autopsy, there's no way of knowing for certain. 
OGAWA: Why won't the Ferengi allow it? 
CRUSHER: It has to do with their death rituals. The body can't be
violated before it's buried. Apparently the family is more concerned
about ritual than finding out the truth about how he died. I just can't
get the information I need from a tricorder scan. Suspects. If Reyga
didn't kill himself. someone else did. So who are the possible
suspects? 
OGAWA: Whoever had something to gain from his death. 
CRUSHER: And the only ones to fit that category are the other
scientists.

