CRUSHER CHRISTOPHER TPAN KURAK

[Christopher's quarters]

CHRISTOPHER: I'm afraid I don't understand, Doctor.
Do you have evidence that Reyga was murdered? 
CRUSHER: No, but I can't believe he took his own life and I would like
to explore any possibilities a bit further. 
T'PAN: What reason would anyone have to kill him? 
CRUSHER: I was wondering if you might have any thoughts along that
line. 
T'PAN: I see. You are suggesting that I had such a motive. 
CRUSHER: If Reyga's technology had been successful, you might have been
displaced as the preeminent scientist in subspace technology. 
T'PAN: But since it wasn't successful, it is illogical to conclude that
I had such a motive, isn't it. 
CHRISTOPHER: I must say I resent this, Doctor. We've all been shocked
by recent events. I don't see that there's anything to gain by dragging
us through these insinuations. 
CRUSHER: I'm just trying to uncover the truth, and I need your help to
do it. Have you seen or heard anything that might suggest that someone
else had a motive? 
CHRISTOPHER: We are trying to forget the unpleasantness of these last
several days, not have them stirred up again. I find it disturbing that
you would try to foster suspicions among us. 
CRUSHER: Forgive me, I don't mean to upset you, but have you noticed
anything unusual? 
CHRISTOPHER: I find your question distasteful. 
CRUSHER: Is there something you're not telling me? 
CHRISTOPHER: I'm sure it's nothing. I was in the storage room of the
science laboratory yesterday. Kurak was working in the lab. Reyga came
in and they got into, well, an argument. 
CRUSHER: About what? 
CHRISTOPHER: I don't know. I couldn't hear clearly until they started
to shout at one other. Then I heard Kurak say that Reyga had insulted
her honour, and no Klingon would stand for that. I do not believe she
killed him. These were words spoken in the heat of anger. Kurak is
volatile, passionate, but not a killer. And, Doctor, neither are we. 
CRUSHER: Thank you. 
CRUSHER [OC]: I knew he might be right about Kurak. Klingons make
threats as a matter of course. On the other hand, sometimes they follow
through.

[Science lab]

CRUSHER: That looks like one of Doctor Reyga's
shield configurations. 
KURAK: Yes. Personal research. 
CRUSHER: Even though this technology failed? 
KURAK: No one has denied there is potential in the idea. 
CRUSHER: Which you're now free to develop. 
KURAK: Are you accusing me of something? 
CRUSHER: No, but I want to know why you threatened Doctor Reyga. 
KURAK: I warned Doctor Reyga that if he persisted with his slander, he
would pay the price. 
CRUSHER: What was his accusation? 
KURAK: I will not repeat his lies. 
CRUSHER: Were they lies? 
KURAK: Be careful, Doctor. Insulting the honour of a Klingon can be
extremely dangerous. 
CRUSHER: Did Reyga make that mistake? 
(Kurak pushes Crusher and she hits the wall) 
KURAK: I have heard enough accusations! Now I will have your silence. 
CRUSHER: Well, you're going to have to throw me a lot harder than that
if you want to get it. Now, what did he accuse you of? 
KURAK: Sabotage. 
CRUSHER: Sabotage of the metaphasic shield? Was that why it failed? 
KURAK: How would I know? 
CRUSHER: Did you sabotage the project? 
KURAK: No. I did not. Goodbye, Doctor. 
CRUSHER [OC]: Kurak refused to say anything more. I wasn't sure if her
silence was motivated by guilt or just Klingon pride. 
[Corridor]

CRUSHER [OC]: I was beginning to find out that
investigating a murder was a little more perilous than I'd thought. And
for everything I'd been though, I didn't have any more insight than I
did before I started.

