RIKER WORF PICARD REYGA JOBRIL CRUSHER DATA

[Bridge]

(the scientists are at the back of the Bridge, at
the science stations) 
CRUSHER [OC]: Not bad for my first venture into scientific diplomacy. 
DATA: Captain, the shuttle has been launched. 
PICARD: On screen. Open a channel. 
JO'BRIL [on viewscreen]: I am one million kilometres from the star's
corona. Proceeding at three quarters impulse. I should reach it in
approximately three minutes. 
REYGA: The metaphasic shielding has begun to form. 
DATA: External temperature is zero point nine million Kelvins and
rising. Radiation levels are nearing ten thousand rads. 
REYGA: That should have no effect on the shuttle cabin. 
CRUSHER: That's right. Temperature in the cabin is twenty one degrees
Celsius and the radiation levels are normal. 
JO'BRIL [on viewscreen]: Wait. I'm reading elevated neutrino levels in
the cabin. 
REYGA: Those are from the subspace field that's encapsulating the
shuttle. The levels are well within acceptable parameters. 
DATA: Outside temperature is rising rapidly. One point seven million
Kelvins. 
CRUSHER: Temperature is still twenty one degrees and the shield is
holding. 
JO'BRIL [on viewscreen]: Three hundred and fifty thousand kilometres
and closing. This is incredible. I am actually flying into a star. 
PICARD: Congratulations, Doctor. This is an amazing achievement. 
DATA: Radiation levels outside the shuttle are nearing fourteen
thousand rads. 
CRUSHER: Temperature inside the cabin is still normal. 
JO'BRIL [on viewscreen]: I am now fully engulfed in the corona. It's
astonishing. 
REYGA: You see, Doctors? Metaphasic shielding is a reality. Doctor
Jo'Bril, can you give us an estimate of the plasma turbulence? 
(Jo'Bril doesn't look too well through the interference) 
REYGA: Doctor Jo'Bril? 
CRUSHER: Something's wrong. 
RIKER: What's going on, Mister Data? 
DATA: Sensors indicate an increased level of baryon particles in the
cabin. 
REYGA: No! That's not possible. 
PICARD: Doctor Jo'Bril, can you hear me? Please respond. 
DATA: Baryon levels are continuing to rise, sir. 
REYGA: I don't understand. This shouldn't be happening. 
PICARD: Mister Worf, can you beam him out of there? 
WORF: The solar radiation is interfering. He must be at least five
hundred thousand kilometres from the star before we can get a
transporter lock. 
(Jo'Bril clearly cannot breathe) 
CRUSHER: We're losing him. 
PICARD: Doctor Jo'Bril, listen to me. It is imperative that you turn
the shuttle. Take it out of the corona. Do you understand me? Pilot the
shuttle away from the star. 
DATA: The shuttle is emerging from the corona, sir. 
PICARD: Mister Worf, get a lock on him as soon as you can. 
CRUSHER: Beam him directly to Sickbay. 
CRUSHER [OC]: At that point, the doubts of the others seemed justified.
I had no idea what had gone wrong or how seriously Doctor Jo'Bril had
been injured, but I knew this incident could destroy Reyga's chance to
be accepted by the scientific community. 
