PICARD GUINAN CRUSHER CRUSHER [OC]
body family personal career chamber digging got disappointed start

[Morgue]

CRUSHER [OC]: Which brought me back to Reyga's
body. Because the more I thought about it, the more it seemed that the
answers had to be there. DNA traces, tissue anomalies, a wealth of
forensic clues that could shed some light on the mystery. So I made the
decision. 
(and Reyga's body is slid out of the chamber)

[Picard's quarters]

PICARD: Come. Beverly. 
CRUSHER: Jean-Luc, I want to tell you something that you need to know,
but you're not going to like it. I did an autopsy on Doctor Reyga. 
PICARD: What did you find? 
CRUSHER: Nothing. I'm sorry. I know I shouldn't have done it. 
PICARD: You most certainly should not. I made it clear to you that the
family would not allow it. Not only have you disobeyed my orders, but
you've interfered in the burial rituals of another culture. You've put
both of us in a very difficult position. The family will have to be
notified. I don't doubt that they will react strongly. If the Ferengi
government becomes involved, as I'm certain they will, this could have
very significant repercussions. I'm not sure how much I can protect
you. 
CRUSHER: You don't have to, Jean-Luc. I knew what I was doing and I'm
prepared to accept the consequences. 
CRUSHER [OC]: I could tell that he was terribly disappointed in me, and
that was almost the hardest part of all. 
[Crusher's quarters]

CRUSHER: So that's the story. That's how I ended my
career. 
GUINAN: Backhand volley. 
CRUSHER: What? 
GUINAN: That's how I did it. Geordi kept hitting to my backhand at the
net. 
CRUSHER: Guinan, two people died on this ship. Two lives that ended
horribly and you're worried about your tennis game? 
GUINAN: Are you upset? 
CRUSHER: I don't know. You tell me. You're supposed to be wise. 
GUINAN: Well, if you are upset, why are you moping around here? Why
don't you do something about it? 
CRUSHER: I've done everything I could think of. It got me fired. 
GUINAN: Do you think Doctor Reyga killed himself? 
CRUSHER: No. 
GUINAN: Do you think there's a murderer on board? 
CRUSHER: Yes. 
GUINAN: Then why are you still sitting here? 
CRUSHER: Don't you get it? If I start digging around again. 
GUINAN: You could be relieved of duty.

Chief Medical Officer's log, personal, stardate
46830.1. I'll be leaving the ship tomorrow to attend the board of
inquiry. That means I have less than twenty four hours to get to the
bottom of this mystery. 
