PICARD RIKER DIVOK WORF KOROTH

[Worf's quarters]

(it's dark, smoky, with lots of candles and some
proper flames which Worf is staring into) 
WORF: Torva luk do shel! Torva
RIKER: Worf, what the hell are you doing?
(Later, the place has been cleaned up and Worf is lying on his bed in
uniform when the doorbell rings) 
WORF: Enter. 
(Picard enters) 
WORF: Captain. 
PICARD: On your feet, Lieutenant. 
WORF: Sir. 
PICARD: Mister Worf, your personal affairs are strictly your own
concern until they interfere with the operation of this ship. You have
now crossed that line. As your Captain, I want to know exactly what is
going on. 
WORF: It is difficult to explain. 
PICARD: Try. 
WORF: Ever since I returned from the Carraya system I have felt empty. 
PICARD: Does this have something to do with the Klingons you rescued
from Carraya Four? 
WORF: They were young. They knew nothing of their heritage. So while I
was there, I tried to teach them. Teach them about their people, their
culture. I told them our ancient stories, instructed them in our
customs, explained our beliefs. And then I told them about Kahless. How
he united our people long ago. How he gave us strength and honour, and
how he promised to return one day and lead us again. 
PICARD: Is that what you're doing here? Trying to recapture those
feelings? 
WORF: Yes. I was trying to summon a vision of Kahless. 
PICARD: It's a pity you didn't try using the holodeck instead of
setting fire to your quarters. 
WORF: Using the holodeck would not have been appropriate. Everything
had to be real if Kahless were to appear. But all this was is nothing.
He did not come to me. I gave Toq and the others a belief in
Sto-Vo-Kor, the life which lies beyond this life where Kahless awaits
us.
When I saw the power of their beliefs I began to question the strength
of my own. And I found it wanting. 
PICARD: Have you lost your faith in Sto-Vo-Kor? 
WORF: To lose something, one must first possess it. I am not sure I
ever had a true belief. But I should not have allowed it to interfere
with my duties. My behaviour has been 
PICARD: Inexcusable. And understandable. It may be that what you are
looking for cannot be found here on the Enterprise. Perhaps you need to
immerse yourself in Klingon beliefs in order to discover whether they
can hold any truths for you. Is there something you can do, is there
somewhere you could go to explore your faith more fully? 
WORF: Boreth. The Followers of Kahless await his return there. To
Klingons, there is no more sacred place. 
PICARD: Boreth is only twelve days from here by shuttle. As of this
moment, Mister Worf, you are on leave. 
WORF: Thank you, sir. 
PICARD: But when you set foot on this ship again, I expect you to
perform your duties like a Starfleet officer. 
WORF: Yes, sir. 
PICARD: And, Mister Worf? I hope you find what you're looking for. 
WORF: Thank you, sir. 
[Lava cave]

(on Boreth, in a cave, Worf and a bunch of Klingons
are staring into a fire, chanting) 
DIVOK: Kahless! I see Kahless! He is standing before me with a sword.
He wants something. Me. He wants me! He wants me to go with him! 
KOROTH: It is a powerful vision you have had, Divok. Kahless wants you
to join him in Sto-Vo-Kor. You are only nineteen and yet your place
among the honoured dead is already secure. Take him back to his
chamber. Let him sleep.

