RIKER GOWRON WORF PICARD CRUSHER DATA

[Observation lounge]

CRUSHER: Did you take any other tricorder readings?
An anatomical profile or a neurophysiology scan? 
WORF: No. 
CRUSHER: It's going to be very difficult to eliminate any possibilities
at this point. He may be a coalescent being taking Klingon form, or a
bioreplicant or even a Klingon who has been surgically altered to look
like Kahless. 
WORF: There is another possibility. He could be the real Kahless. He
may have actually returned as he promised. 
DATA: The appearance of Kahless in the lava caves is consistent with
the stories found in the Klingon sacred texts. 
RIKER: Worf, no offence, but I have trouble believing that the man I
that escorted to deck eight is supernatural. 
WORF: I did not say that he is. I merely think we should not completely
reject the possibility. 
PICARD: Look, we have no reason to rule out anything. We are not
ordered to investigate the origins of our guest, nor tell anyone what
they should believe. We are simply to transport Kahless to the Home
World. And while he's here with us, he will be treated as an honoured
guest. 
(as everyone starts to leave) 
DATA: Lieutenant? May I ask a question? In the absence of empirical
data, how will you determine whether or not this is the real Kahless? 
WORF: It is not an empirical matter. It is a matter of faith. 
DATA: Faith? Then you do believe Kahless may have supernatural
attributes? As an android, I am unable to accept
that which cannot be proven through rational means. I would appreciate
hearing your insights on this matter. 
WORF: Perhaps some other time, Commander. I do not believe I can
provide much insight at this minute.

[Transporter room]

PICARD: Welcome aboard, Gowron. 
GOWRON: Where is he, Picard? 
PICARD: I assume that you're referring to Kahless. 
GOWRON: I am referring to the filthy pahtk who is using his name. 
PICARD: Well, the person in question is in his quarters at the moment. 
GOWRON: What have you learned about him so far? 
