KLINGON ALL TORIN KAHLESS WORF

[Worf's chambers]

KAHLESS: What is it you are doing? 
WORF: I was getting my tricorder. 
KAHLESS: Tricorder? Is it a weapon? 
WORF: No, no. It is a tool. I intended to use it to see 
KAHLESS: To see if I was real. Proceed. Use your tricorder. Well? 
WORF: You are Klingon. 
KAHLESS: What else could I be? 
WORF: There are many possibilities. A shape shifter, a holographic
projection. 
KAHLESS: So, you are a sceptic, Worf. I like that. 
WORF: How do you know my name? 
KAHLESS: We have met before. I appeared to you in a vision in the caves
of No'Mat. You were just a child then. I told you that you would do
something that no Klingon had ever done before. You still do not
believe it is me, do you Worf? 
WORF: I want to believe. 
KAHLESS: That is a beginning.

[Temple]

(a dining table is set up in the aisle, as Kahless
sits on his throne and is briefed by a priest) 
TORIN: Gowron is the Leader of the Council. He commands the entire
Defence Force. If he chooses to oppose you 
KAHLESS: Do not worry. We are on the threshold of a new era for our
people. Klingons from all over the Empire will flock to my banner. Yet
something still weighs heavy on the brow of the son of Mogh. Are you
contemplating yet another question for me? After three days, I am
beginning to wonder if you know how to do anything else. 
WORF: Questions are the beginning of wisdom, the mark of a true
warrior. 
KAHLESS: Do not forget that a leader need not answer questions of those
he leads. It is enough that he says to do a thing and they will do it.
If he says to run, they run. If he says to fight, they fight. If he
says to die, they die. 
WORF: If the commander is worthy of their trust. 
KAHLESS: NuQ cha'tak. NuQ! 
(Torin hands Kahless his bat'leth. Worf is given another. They fight,
and Worf gets some good blows in, knocking Kahless down) 
KAHLESS: (laughs) What is wrong? Is there only anger and bloodlust in
your souls? Is that all that is left in the Klingon heart? We do not
fight merely to spill blood, but to enrich the spirit. Look at us. Two
warriors locked in battle, fighting for honour. How can you not sing
for all to hear? We are Klingons! Yes! Let it out! Let the joy in your
heart be heard. We are Klingons! 
KLINGON: We are Klingons. 
KAHLESS: We are Klingons. 
ALL: We are Klingons. We are Klingons. We are Klingons. We are
Klingons. We are Klingons. We are Klingons. 
Captain's log, stardate 46852.2. The Enterprise is
to proceed directly to the planet Boreth to take aboard a very unusual
guest. 
