ALL KLINGON WORF PICARD RIKER TORIN CRUSHER DATA KAHLESS
heart 46852 set says observation insight nuq let temple

[Temple]

(a dining table is set up in the aisle, as Kahless
sits on his throne and is briefed by a priest) 
TORIN: Gowron is the Leader of the Council. He commands the entire
Defence Force. If he chooses to oppose you 
KAHLESS: Do not worry. We are on the threshold of a new era for our
people. Klingons from all over the Empire will flock to my banner. Yet
something still weighs heavy on the brow of the son of Mogh. Are you
contemplating yet another question for me? After three days, I am
beginning to wonder if you know how to do anything else. 
WORF: Questions are the beginning of wisdom, the mark of a true
warrior. 
KAHLESS: Do not forget that a leader need not answer questions of those
he leads. It is enough that he says to do a thing and they will do it.
If he says to run, they run. If he says to fight, they fight. If he
says to die, they die. 
WORF: If the commander is worthy of their trust. 
KAHLESS: NuQ cha'tak. NuQ! 
(Torin hands Kahless his bat'leth. Worf is given another. They fight,
and Worf gets some good blows in, knocking Kahless down) 
KAHLESS: (laughs) What is wrong? Is there only anger and bloodlust in
your souls? Is that all that is left in the Klingon heart? We do not
fight merely to spill blood, but to enrich the spirit. Look at us. Two
warriors locked in battle, fighting for honour. How can you not sing
for all to hear? We are Klingons! Yes! Let it out! Let the joy in your
heart be heard. We are Klingons! 
KLINGON: We are Klingons. 
KAHLESS: We are Klingons. 
ALL: We are Klingons. We are Klingons. We are Klingons. We are
Klingons. We are Klingons. We are Klingons. 
Captain's log, stardate 46852.2. The Enterprise is
to proceed directly to the planet Boreth to take aboard a very unusual
guest. 
[Observation lounge]

CRUSHER: Did you take any other tricorder readings?
An anatomical profile or a neurophysiology scan? 
WORF: No. 
CRUSHER: It's going to be very difficult to eliminate any possibilities
at this point. He may be a coalescent being taking Klingon form, or a
bioreplicant or even a Klingon who has been surgically altered to look
like Kahless. 
WORF: There is another possibility. He could be the real Kahless. He
may have actually returned as he promised. 
DATA: The appearance of Kahless in the lava caves is consistent with
the stories found in the Klingon sacred texts. 
RIKER: Worf, no offence, but I have trouble believing that the man I
that escorted to deck eight is supernatural. 
WORF: I did not say that he is. I merely think we should not completely
reject the possibility. 
PICARD: Look, we have no reason to rule out anything. We are not
ordered to investigate the origins of our guest, nor tell anyone what
they should believe. We are simply to transport Kahless to the Home
World. And while he's here with us, he will be treated as an honoured
guest. 
(as everyone starts to leave) 
DATA: Lieutenant? May I ask a question? In the absence of empirical
data, how will you determine whether or not this is the real Kahless? 
WORF: It is not an empirical matter. It is a matter of faith. 
DATA: Faith? Then you do believe Kahless may have supernatural
attributes? As an android, I am unable to accept
that which cannot be proven through rational means. I would appreciate
hearing your insights on this matter. 
WORF: Perhaps some other time, Commander. I do not believe I can
provide much insight at this minute.

