KLINGON GOWRON WORF KOROTH TORIN KAHLESS

[Holodeck Temple]

GOWRON: Koroth. I see that not all fools die young.

KLINGON: Kahless! 
KOROTH: Kahless, may I present Gowron, Leader of the High Council. 
KLINGON: Kahless. 
(Kahless walks straight to his throne and sits) 
KAHLESS: Long ago, a storm was heading toward the city of Quin'lat. The
people sought protection within the walls. All except one man who
remained outside. I went to him and asked what he was doing. I am not
afraid, he said. I will not hide my face behind stone and mortar. I
will stand before the wind and make it respect me. I honoured his
choice and went inside. The next day, the storm came and the man was
killed. The wind does not respect a fool. Do not stand before the wind,
Gowron. 
GOWRON: What was his name? 
KAHLESS: What? 
GOWRON: If you were really there, you should be able to tell us the
name of the man outside the walls. Describe him to us. What was he
wearing? How tall was he? What colour were his eyes? 
KAHLESS: I do not remember. It was long ago, and in another lifetime.
What matters is, I have returned to restore faith and hope to my
people. To lead them back to the way of honour and the glory that was
once theirs and can be again. Is that what you oppose, Gowron? 
GOWRON: I oppose you. I say you are not Kahless, and I will not bend my
knee to you as long as I can draw a breath or pick up a blade. 
(Gowron draws his dagger, and Kahless comes forward to fight him with
his own dagger) 
KOROTH: No! 
WORF: Koroth! 
(the fight starts) 
KAHLESS: A good try, Gowron, but not enough. 
(another series of thrusts and parries, and Kahless headbuts Gowron,
then laughs) 
KAHLESS: You have no joy, Gowron. Is your heart so filled of distrust
and suspicion that you've forgotten what it is to be truly Klingon? 
(Gowron disarms Kahless and knocks him down. Worf stops Gowron from
killing him) 
GOWRON: Kahless. The greatest warrior of them all. 
[Kahless' quarters]

KOROTH: Everything will be all right. We will say
that Gowron used a dishonourable tactic in his fight with Kahless. 
TORIN: That he cheated. 
WORF: That is a lie. He did not 
KOROTH: We do not need to hear any more from the son of Mogh. None of
this would have happened if you hadn't brought them together. 
KAHLESS: I am Kahless, I am the strongest, the bravest warrior. 
TORIN: Do not think about what happened. You must think of the future,
of the Empire. 
WORF: There is no future here. No glorious new era for our people.
Gowron was right. You did not know the name of the man who faced the
storm. You do not even know what real warnog tastes like. And you
certainly are not the greatest warrior of all. Whoever you are, you are
not Kahless. 
KOROTH: You have said enough. Now get out! 
WORF: You are using the name of Kahless for some twisted game. For that
alone, you should die. And if you do not tell me what you have done, I
will kill you right here. 
KOROTH: The problems with your memory are the result of the way you
returned. 
KAHLESS: What do you mean? 
KOROTH: We, the Guardians, have been awaiting your return for
centuries, but we did not have the technology to bring you back. Until
now. We were able to use an organic sample of the first Kahless to give
you life. 
KAHLESS: The first Kahless? 
WORF: A clone. He is a clone. 
KAHLESS: What is a clone? 
WORF: A being created in a laboratory by genetic material taken from
another being. You are a copy. A fraud. 
KOROTH: You are not just a copy. We gave you more than the body of
Kahless. 
TORIN: We found a way to imprint specific information in your
neurosynaptic patterns. We gave you memories, and not just any
memories. We gave you the experiences of Kahless as written in the
sacred texts. 
KAHLESS: So, I did not do any of the things that I remember. I was
never at the city of Quin'lat. I never went to the Kri'stat volcano. 
KOROTH: You were not awakened until we transported you into the cave
and you appeared to Worf. Before that time you were unconscious in a
laboratory where we accelerated your growth, corrected any genetic
anomalies that occurred, gave you the wisdom and memories that 
WORF: They grew you in a test tube like some kind of fungus and
programmed you like a machine. 
KOROTH: You are twisting the truth. 
WORF: You talk to me of truth? You, who have brought to life this lie
and called it Kahless? 
KOROTH: It is not a lie. Genetically, he is Kahless, and he is needed
by our people. You know better than anyone the corruption and dishonour
that has destroyed the Empire. They need him. 
WORF: They do not need a false god. 
KOROTH: How do you know that this is not the way the prophesy was to be
fulfilled? Who is to say that what we did was wrong? 
WORF: I am. I will not let this fraud continue. 
KOROTH: Worf! You cannot tell Gowron of this. 
WORF: Do not give me orders, Koroth. 
KOROTH: All right, but consider this. If you tell Gowron what we have
told you, it will destroy him. (Kahless) And with him, the last chance
to restore hope to our people. It's your choice. 
