KAHLESS TORIN DATA KOROTH WORF

[Kahless' quarters]

KOROTH: Everything will be all right. We will say
that Gowron used a dishonourable tactic in his fight with Kahless. 
TORIN: That he cheated. 
WORF: That is a lie. He did not 
KOROTH: We do not need to hear any more from the son of Mogh. None of
this would have happened if you hadn't brought them together. 
KAHLESS: I am Kahless, I am the strongest, the bravest warrior. 
TORIN: Do not think about what happened. You must think of the future,
of the Empire. 
WORF: There is no future here. No glorious new era for our people.
Gowron was right. You did not know the name of the man who faced the
storm. You do not even know what real warnog tastes like. And you
certainly are not the greatest warrior of all. Whoever you are, you are
not Kahless. 
KOROTH: You have said enough. Now get out! 
WORF: You are using the name of Kahless for some twisted game. For that
alone, you should die. And if you do not tell me what you have done, I
will kill you right here. 
KOROTH: The problems with your memory are the result of the way you
returned. 
KAHLESS: What do you mean? 
KOROTH: We, the Guardians, have been awaiting your return for
centuries, but we did not have the technology to bring you back. Until
now. We were able to use an organic sample of the first Kahless to give
you life. 
KAHLESS: The first Kahless? 
WORF: A clone. He is a clone. 
KAHLESS: What is a clone? 
WORF: A being created in a laboratory by genetic material taken from
another being. You are a copy. A fraud. 
KOROTH: You are not just a copy. We gave you more than the body of
Kahless. 
TORIN: We found a way to imprint specific information in your
neurosynaptic patterns. We gave you memories, and not just any
memories. We gave you the experiences of Kahless as written in the
sacred texts. 
KAHLESS: So, I did not do any of the things that I remember. I was
never at the city of Quin'lat. I never went to the Kri'stat volcano. 
KOROTH: You were not awakened until we transported you into the cave
and you appeared to Worf. Before that time you were unconscious in a
laboratory where we accelerated your growth, corrected any genetic
anomalies that occurred, gave you the wisdom and memories that 
WORF: They grew you in a test tube like some kind of fungus and
programmed you like a machine. 
KOROTH: You are twisting the truth. 
WORF: You talk to me of truth? You, who have brought to life this lie
and called it Kahless? 
KOROTH: It is not a lie. Genetically, he is Kahless, and he is needed
by our people. You know better than anyone the corruption and dishonour
that has destroyed the Empire. They need him. 
WORF: They do not need a false god. 
KOROTH: How do you know that this is not the way the prophesy was to be
fulfilled? Who is to say that what we did was wrong? 
WORF: I am. I will not let this fraud continue. 
KOROTH: Worf! You cannot tell Gowron of this. 
WORF: Do not give me orders, Koroth. 
KOROTH: All right, but consider this. If you tell Gowron what we have
told you, it will destroy him. (Kahless) And with him, the last chance
to restore hope to our people. It's your choice. 
[Holodeck Temple]

(some Klingons are kneeling in front of Kahless'
throne and chanting) 
DATA: They have been sitting here for three hours seventeen minutes.
They refuse to transport back to the ship with the rest of Gowron's
men. They insisted on waiting here until they see Kahless again. Their
faith appears to be unaffected by his inability to defeat Gowron. They
still believe. 
WORF: Then they are fools. 
DATA: Does that mean you no longer believe this is the real Kahless? 
WORF: Yes. 
DATA: I am curious. Do you still think the real Kahless will return
someday? Or has this experience only deepened the spiritual crisis
which originally sent you to Boreth? 
WORF: I do not know. 
DATA: I understand your dilemma. I once had what could be considered a
crisis of the spirit. 
WORF: You? 
DATA: Yes. The Starfleet officers who first activated me on Omicron
Theta told me I was an android, nothing more than a sophisticated
machine with human form. However I realised that if I were simply a
machine, I could never be anything else. I could never grow beyond my
programming. I found that difficult to accept, so I chose to believe
that I was a person, that I had the potential to be more than a
collection of circuits and subprocessors. It is a belief which I still
hold. 
WORF: How did you come to your decision? 
DATA: I made a leap of faith.

