DATA GOWRON KAHLESS KOROTH WORF
heart centuries saying decision experience fight machine sent ability

[Holodeck Temple]

(some Klingons are kneeling in front of Kahless'
throne and chanting) 
DATA: They have been sitting here for three hours seventeen minutes.
They refuse to transport back to the ship with the rest of Gowron's
men. They insisted on waiting here until they see Kahless again. Their
faith appears to be unaffected by his inability to defeat Gowron. They
still believe. 
WORF: Then they are fools. 
DATA: Does that mean you no longer believe this is the real Kahless? 
WORF: Yes. 
DATA: I am curious. Do you still think the real Kahless will return
someday? Or has this experience only deepened the spiritual crisis
which originally sent you to Boreth? 
WORF: I do not know. 
DATA: I understand your dilemma. I once had what could be considered a
crisis of the spirit. 
WORF: You? 
DATA: Yes. The Starfleet officers who first activated me on Omicron
Theta told me I was an android, nothing more than a sophisticated
machine with human form. However I realised that if I were simply a
machine, I could never be anything else. I could never grow beyond my
programming. I found that difficult to accept, so I chose to believe
that I was a person, that I had the potential to be more than a
collection of circuits and subprocessors. It is a belief which I still
hold. 
WORF: How did you come to your decision? 
DATA: I made a leap of faith.

[Observation lounge]

(Worf enters) 
WORF: The man who appeared to me on Boreth is not Kahless. He is a
clone. 
GOWRON: A clone! 
WORF: Yes. 
GOWRON: Did you really think you would get away with this kind of
fraud, Koroth? I will have you and this abomination put to death. 
WORF: It does not matter, Gowron. You will still not be able to stand
against him. 
GOWRON: What? He's not real. You just said so. 
WORF: I said he was not the Kahless, but in the minds of our people he
can be just as powerful as Kahless. Even now, two members of your own
crew are sitting on our Holodeck waiting for him to return. 
GOWRON: I do not care what they think. 
WORF: But hey are not alone. Like many of our people, they need
something to believe in, just like I did. Something larger than
themselves, something that will give their lives meaning. They need
Kahless. 
GOWRON: But when they find out the truth? 
WORF: It will not matter, Gowron. Despite the facts, they will still
believe. They will make a leap of faith and there will be others just
like them. Not everyone, but enough to plunge the Empire into civil war
if you oppose them. 
GOWRON: What are you saying? That I should just hand over the Empire? 
WORF: No, that would be unwise as well. 
KOROTH: Then what are you proposing, Worf? 
WORF: You were right about one thing, Koroth. Our people are becoming
decadent and corrupt. They need moral leadership. Kahless can be that
leader, as Emperor. 
GOWRON: There hasn't been an Emperor in three centuries! 
WORF: The political power will remain with the High Council. Kahless
would be a figurehead, but he will have the ability to rally the
people, to lead by example, to guide them in spiritual matters. 
KOROTH: The title is meaningless without the power to back it up. 
WORF: Real power comes from within the heart. You would have the power
to mold the Klingon heart. You could return them to honourable ways
according to the original teachings of Kahless which are within you. It
would be a great challenge, if you have the courage to accept it. 
GOWRON: And what will we tell the people about their new Emperor? That
he appeared in a cave or a laboratory? 
WORF: We will tell them the truth. All of the truth. But we will tell
them that even if he is not the real Kahless, he is the rightful heir
to Kahless. 
GOWRON: And if I refuse to go along with this? 
WORF: Then my brother and those who support him on the Council will
fight you, and I will fight you. And the Empire will fall back into
civil war. 
GOWRON: What do you say about this, Koroth? 
KOROTH: What I say is unimportant. 
KAHLESS: It is acceptable. 
(Koroth kneels before his Emperor. Worf does the same) 
KAHLESS: Join with me, Gowron. Let us usher in this new era together. 
GOWRON: Vorcha doh bagh (kneels) Kahless.

