RIKER WORF CREWMAN PICARD CRUSHER DATA

[Research station]

(consoles are lit up) 
RIKER: This is different than I remember. The place was a mess when we
left. 
DATA: Commander. 
RIKER: Someone was here. 
WORF: A ship could have been caught in the distortion field and
crashed. The survivors may have taken refuge here. 
DATA: Commander, someone is approaching. A humanoid. Forty metres due
east and closing. 
(they take up defensive positions and a figure in tattered clothing
comes through the door. He looks like Riker's identical twin!) 
RIKER: Who are you? 
RIKER 2: Who are you? 
RIKER: I'm Commander William Riker from the Federation Starship
Enterprise. 
RIKER 2: That's not possible. I'm Will Riker. 
DATA: May I ask how you got here? 
RIKER 2: Eight years ago, I led a team to evacuate this station. 
RIKER: What ship were you on? 
RIKER 2: The Potemkin. 
DATA: Why did you not return to the Potemkin with the others? 
RIKER 2: I was the last one out. The distortion field must have
interfered with the transport. They lost their signal lock on me. When
I tried to contact the ship, I couldn't get through the interference.
If you check with Starfleet I'm sure they will have recorded that I was
lost on that day. 
RIKER: That's not what happened. I was the last one out and I made it
back to the Potemkin. 
RIKER 2: You don't believe me? 
RIKER: It's not that we don't believe you. It's just hard to see how
both stories could be true. Would you be willing have our Doctor check
you out? 
RIKER 2: Of course. 
RIKER: Mister Worf, take him directly to Sickbay, and notify the
Captain once you're on board. Let's get to work. 
WORF: Worf to Enterprise. Two to beam up. 
CREWMAN [OC]: Aye, sir. Stand by. 
[Sickbay]

CRUSHER: Looks like you fractured your arm a few
years ago. 
RIKER 2: I was doing some repairs under the station when an earthquake
hit. I got caught in a rockslide. I had to set it myself. 
PICARD: Jean-Luc Picard. 
RIKER 2: Lieutenant Will Riker. 
PICARD: I hope you understand our need to verify your claim. 
RIKER 2: Yes, sir. 
CRUSHER: Genetically, he's indistinguishable from Commander Riker. 
PICARD: Could there be some sort of cloning involved here? 
CRUSHER: I don't think so. There's no genetic drift. 
PICARD: But it's not conclusive. 
CRUSHER: That's why I compared their brain scans. Brain organisation
patterns are as unique as fingerprints. Except for minor, minor
differences, theirs are identical. 
PICARD: But can't brain patterns be cloned? 
CRUSHER: No. They're determined by experience, mostly from early
childhood. 
PICARD: How can two grown men share the same childhood experiences? It
just doesn't make any sense. 
RIKER 2: I am Will Riker. I don't know who or what made it back to the
Potemkin that day, but it wasn't me. 
PICARD: Lieutenant, our Chief Engineer is checking the transport logs
of the Potemkin. Perhaps that will shed some light on the matter. Don't
worry, we will get to the bottom of this. And in the meantime, you will
be taken to your quarters. Try and make yourself as comfortable as
possible. 
RIKER 2: I will. The replicators on the station haven't worked for a
long time ago. It's been a while since I've had a decent meal. Doctor. 
