TROI WORF RIKER 2 RIKER CRUSHER DATA
handle months humans try source jogging pair believe left

[Gymnasium]

(Beverly and Deanna are doing the mok'bara
exercises) 
TROI: We stayed in Ten Forward talking for hours. 
CRUSHER: Then what happened? 
TROI: He walked me to my quarters. 
CRUSHER: Then what happened? 
TROI: Beverly! 
CRUSHER: I'm just asking. 
TROI: You know it's been over between Will and me for a long time. 
CRUSHER: He's not Will. He is Will but, you know what I mean. 
TROI: It's really hard for me to separate my feelings for them. 
CRUSHER: Deanna, just because things turned out the way they did
between you and Commander Riker, doesn't mean you shouldn't let things
between you and Lieutenant Riker take their own course. 
TROI: I knew you'd encourage me. 
CRUSHER: I thought that's that why you brought it up. 
(they resume the forms, as Lt. Riker enters) 
CRUSHER: Well, I think I'll call it a day. 
TROI: (hisses) Beverly. 
(Riker limbers up) 
CRUSHER: Bye. 
RIKER 2: Some form of tai chi chuan? 
TROI: Klingon exercises, actually. Lieutenant Worf teaches a class. 
RIKER 2: The forms are very similar. Do that move again. 
(she does, and he copies) 
TROI: You just did the KoH-man-ara. 
RIKER 2: Tai chi chuan. It's called the crane block. Now let's try
something else. 
(he does a move that reaches out to her, she takes the arm, bends it
back and rolls him onto his back) 
RIKER 2: What was that called? Mister Worf's a very good teacher. 
(and now she has him on the floor, lips connect in a prelude to
horizontal jogging) 
[Ten Forward]

TROI: Hello, Will. 
RIKER: If you want to be with him, you don't have to ask my permission.
It's the look in your eyes. I recognise it. You used to have it for me.

TROI: We've both had relationships with other people. This is
different. I didn't know how you'd feel about it. 
RIKER: Flattered, sort of. 
TROI: This must be very strange for you. 
RIKER: Ever since he came on board, I find myself thinking about the
choice you and I made. 
TROI: Me too. 
RIKER: Do me a favour. Be careful. 
TROI: Will, I know you and he have had some problems. 
RIKER: That's not what I'm talking about. If he had gotten off the
planet instead of me, don't you think he would have made the same
choices that I made? I just don't want you to be hurt again.

[Cmdr Riker's quarters]

WORF: Two pair. 
RIKER: Full boat, kings over. I'd like to thank you both for your very
generous contributions. 
(doorbell) 
RIKER: Come in. 
RIKER 2: I thought you'd be alone. Excuse me. 
RIKER: Why don't you join us? 
(the two Rikers are sitting opposite each other) 
DATA: The game is five card draw, no limit. Ante, please. 
(Data deals) 
DATA: Lieutenant? 
RIKER 2: Three. please. 
DATA: Mister Worf? 
WORF: Four. 
DATA: Commander. 
RIKER: I'll play these. 
DATA: Dealer takes two. You control the bet, Lieutenant. 
RIKER 2: Fifty. 
WORF: Fold. 
RIKER: Here's your fifty. And ten more. 
RIKER 2: You didn't take any cards. You must be holding something. Why
not make it a little sweeter? 
RIKER: No, thanks. 
RIKER 2: Playing it safe? 
RIKER: You in? 
DATA: I will call. 
RIKER 2: Here's your ten, and it will cost you another one hundred. 
RIKER: I've practised in the mirror too long to be fooled by that face.
You're bluffing. Here's your hundred and twenty more. 
DATA: Dealer folds. 
RIKER 2: I thought if one thing were clear by now, it's that you and I
play things a little differently. 
RIKER: Why don't we wait and see who comes out on top. 
RIKER 2: I thought you were willing to settle for second. Commander. 
RIKER: I've never settled for anything in my life. I know what I want,
I know what I've got, and you'd be lucky to do as well. Lieutenant. 
RIKER 2: Here's your twenty. Three hundred more. 
RIKER: Now I know you're bluffing. 
RIKER 2: Are you in or not? 
RIKER: Why don't we get this over with? I'll call your three, and I'll
raise you anything you've got left. Well? 
RIKER 2: Take it. You always had the better hand, in everything.

[Troi's quarters]

TROI: Come in. 
RIKER 2: Hi. I'm sorry to just stop by like this but there's something
I'd like to talk to you about. 
(he enters) 
RIKER 2: Captain Picard made has some inquiries. He managed to get me a
posting on the Gandhi. And considering how long I've been out of
commission, it's an amazing opportunity. 
TROI: When would you leave? 
RIKER 2: In about a week. 
TROI: I see. 
RIKER 2: Deanna. After I've served for six months, I'm eligible to
bring family aboard. If we got married 
TROI: You said those exact words to me before you went to serve on the
Potemkin. 
RIKER 2: I know. I was just held up for a while. 
TROI: But if you hadn't been, what would have happened between us? 
RIKER 2: I wouldn't've made the mistake of leaving you. I know that
much. 
TROI: I don't know if I can believe that. It took me a long time to get
over what happened between Commander Riker and me. I don't know that I
want to put myself in that position again. 
RIKER 2: I would never hurt you, Deanna. 
TROI: It's not just that. I've worked hard to make a life for myself on
the Enterprise. I'm happy here. 
RIKER 2: If the situation were different, I'd stay. But I can't. Not
while he's aboard. 
TROI: I know. 
RIKER 2: Are you saying it's over? 
TROI: No. No. I just don't know if I'm ready to give up my life here.
Maybe we both need some time. 
(a kiss) 
RIKER 2: Goodnight.

Captain's log, supplemental. The third transport
window has opened and the away team is making their final attempt at
retrieving the database.

[Research station]

RIKER 2: Once we restore the servo link, you can
shunt the database up to this console. Are you ready, Commander Data? 
RIKER: You're with me, Lieutenant. 
RIKER 2: I thought Commander Data's expertise. 
RIKER: It doesn't take that much expertise to repair a servo link. You
and I can handle it. 
(the two Rikers leave) 
DATA: Lieutenant, I am curious about something. If you met a double of
yourself, would you have difficulty interacting with him? 
WORF: I think so. 
DATA: Why? 
WORF: I am not easy to get along with. 
DATA: But Commander Riker and Lieutenant Riker are. Yet they seem to
have trouble getting along with each another. I have found that humans
value their uniqueness, that sense that they are different from every
one else. The existence of a double would preclude that feeling. Could
that be the source of the friction? 
WORF: Or perhaps it is more a matter of seeing something in your
double. Something you do not like in yourself.

