RIKER 2 DATA TROI WORF RIKER
nervala working cmdr thanks report making grab boat inquiries

[Cmdr Riker's quarters]

WORF: Two pair. 
RIKER: Full boat, kings over. I'd like to thank you both for your very
generous contributions. 
(doorbell) 
RIKER: Come in. 
RIKER 2: I thought you'd be alone. Excuse me. 
RIKER: Why don't you join us? 
(the two Rikers are sitting opposite each other) 
DATA: The game is five card draw, no limit. Ante, please. 
(Data deals) 
DATA: Lieutenant? 
RIKER 2: Three. please. 
DATA: Mister Worf? 
WORF: Four. 
DATA: Commander. 
RIKER: I'll play these. 
DATA: Dealer takes two. You control the bet, Lieutenant. 
RIKER 2: Fifty. 
WORF: Fold. 
RIKER: Here's your fifty. And ten more. 
RIKER 2: You didn't take any cards. You must be holding something. Why
not make it a little sweeter? 
RIKER: No, thanks. 
RIKER 2: Playing it safe? 
RIKER: You in? 
DATA: I will call. 
RIKER 2: Here's your ten, and it will cost you another one hundred. 
RIKER: I've practised in the mirror too long to be fooled by that face.
You're bluffing. Here's your hundred and twenty more. 
DATA: Dealer folds. 
RIKER 2: I thought if one thing were clear by now, it's that you and I
play things a little differently. 
RIKER: Why don't we wait and see who comes out on top. 
RIKER 2: I thought you were willing to settle for second. Commander. 
RIKER: I've never settled for anything in my life. I know what I want,
I know what I've got, and you'd be lucky to do as well. Lieutenant. 
RIKER 2: Here's your twenty. Three hundred more. 
RIKER: Now I know you're bluffing. 
RIKER 2: Are you in or not? 
RIKER: Why don't we get this over with? I'll call your three, and I'll
raise you anything you've got left. Well? 
RIKER 2: Take it. You always had the better hand, in everything.

[Troi's quarters]

TROI: Come in. 
RIKER 2: Hi. I'm sorry to just stop by like this but there's something
I'd like to talk to you about. 
(he enters) 
RIKER 2: Captain Picard made has some inquiries. He managed to get me a
posting on the Gandhi. And considering how long I've been out of
commission, it's an amazing opportunity. 
TROI: When would you leave? 
RIKER 2: In about a week. 
TROI: I see. 
RIKER 2: Deanna. After I've served for six months, I'm eligible to
bring family aboard. If we got married 
TROI: You said those exact words to me before you went to serve on the
Potemkin. 
RIKER 2: I know. I was just held up for a while. 
TROI: But if you hadn't been, what would have happened between us? 
RIKER 2: I wouldn't've made the mistake of leaving you. I know that
much. 
TROI: I don't know if I can believe that. It took me a long time to get
over what happened between Commander Riker and me. I don't know that I
want to put myself in that position again. 
RIKER 2: I would never hurt you, Deanna. 
TROI: It's not just that. I've worked hard to make a life for myself on
the Enterprise. I'm happy here. 
RIKER 2: If the situation were different, I'd stay. But I can't. Not
while he's aboard. 
TROI: I know. 
RIKER 2: Are you saying it's over? 
TROI: No. No. I just don't know if I'm ready to give up my life here.
Maybe we both need some time. 
(a kiss) 
RIKER 2: Goodnight.

Captain's log, supplemental. The third transport
window has opened and the away team is making their final attempt at
retrieving the database.

[Research station]

RIKER 2: Once we restore the servo link, you can
shunt the database up to this console. Are you ready, Commander Data? 
RIKER: You're with me, Lieutenant. 
RIKER 2: I thought Commander Data's expertise. 
RIKER: It doesn't take that much expertise to repair a servo link. You
and I can handle it. 
(the two Rikers leave) 
DATA: Lieutenant, I am curious about something. If you met a double of
yourself, would you have difficulty interacting with him? 
WORF: I think so. 
DATA: Why? 
WORF: I am not easy to get along with. 
DATA: But Commander Riker and Lieutenant Riker are. Yet they seem to
have trouble getting along with each another. I have found that humans
value their uniqueness, that sense that they are different from every
one else. The existence of a double would preclude that feeling. Could
that be the source of the friction? 
WORF: Or perhaps it is more a matter of seeing something in your
double. Something you do not like in yourself.

[Cavern]

(twisted metal and various bits and pieces of
scaffolding and gantry across a
chasm) 
RIKER 2: This is it. There's the core, over there. 
RIKER: You waiting for something? 
RIKER 2: Your orders, sir. How would you like me to get over there,
sir? 
RIKER: You've been down here dozens of times. I'm sure you know the
best way. 
RIKER 2: Yes, sir. I do. 
(they head through the scaffolding, then Riker 2's tricorder beeps) 
RIKER 2: It's leaking ion radiation. 
RIKER: Why didn't you report this? 
RIKER 2: It wasn't here before. This must have just happened recently.
If we have to repair this conduit, we won't have time to access that
computer core. 
(Riker 1 goes to a wall panel and pulls a switch. Something switches
off) 
RIKER: Scan it now. 
RIKER 2: It's working. The radiation levels are dropping to normal. 
RIKER: Next time, don't give up so easily. 
(they head off across a metal bridge to the core. It gives way and
Riker 2 is hanging over a very deep drop. Riker 1 lies down and grabs
his arms.) 
RIKER: Hang on! Come on, grab on. Come on! Come on, climb! Come on!
(but Riker 2 can't get a foothold) I'm being pulled in. 
RIKER 2: Let go! One of us has to get out of here. 
RIKER: Climb! Come on! Climb! Climb! 
(and finally Riker 2 scrambles to safety over the top of Riker 1) 
[Research station]

DATA: They have restored the servo link to the
core. We can begin downloading the database. 
WORF: Initiating data transfer.

Captain's log, stardate 46920.1. We have retrieved
the database from Nervala station and are headed for our rendezvous
with the Gandhi.

