RIKER DATA WORF CREWMAN

[Bridge]

(at the science stations) 
RIKER: You wanted to see me, Mister Data? 
DATA: Yes, sir. It appears we will be able to transport to the surface
sooner than anticipated. 
RIKER: Is the planet's distortion field re-phasing sooner than we
predicted? 
DATA: No, sir. Using the Potemkin's transport logs from the original
evacuation, Commander La Forge and I were able to modify the
transporters. 
RIKER: So we can beam through a higher distortion field. 
DATA: The transporters are considerably more efficient than those used
on the Potemkin eight years ago. 
RIKER: That's a good thing. I almost didn't make it off the surface.
When can we get started? 
DATA: Ninety seven minutes, sir. 
RIKER: How long will the transport window be open? 
DATA: Twenty six minutes. After that, the distortion field will
re-phase. 
RIKER: That doesn't give us much time to retrieve the database. 
DATA: The planet's proximity to its sun will create two additional
transport windows in the next three days. 
RIKER: Let's hope that's enough. 
DATA: It will have to be, sir. The next transport window will not occur
for another eight years, when the planet's orbit will bring it close
enough to the sun to de-phase the distortion field. 
RIKER: Okay, notify the away team that we're going in ahead of
schedule. I'll tell the Captain. 
DATA: Aye, sir.

[Research station]

(consoles are lit up) 
RIKER: This is different than I remember. The place was a mess when we
left. 
DATA: Commander. 
RIKER: Someone was here. 
WORF: A ship could have been caught in the distortion field and
crashed. The survivors may have taken refuge here. 
DATA: Commander, someone is approaching. A humanoid. Forty metres due
east and closing. 
(they take up defensive positions and a figure in tattered clothing
comes through the door. He looks like Riker's identical twin!) 
RIKER: Who are you? 
RIKER 2: Who are you? 
RIKER: I'm Commander William Riker from the Federation Starship
Enterprise. 
RIKER 2: That's not possible. I'm Will Riker. 
DATA: May I ask how you got here? 
RIKER 2: Eight years ago, I led a team to evacuate this station. 
RIKER: What ship were you on? 
RIKER 2: The Potemkin. 
DATA: Why did you not return to the Potemkin with the others? 
RIKER 2: I was the last one out. The distortion field must have
interfered with the transport. They lost their signal lock on me. When
I tried to contact the ship, I couldn't get through the interference.
If you check with Starfleet I'm sure they will have recorded that I was
lost on that day. 
RIKER: That's not what happened. I was the last one out and I made it
back to the Potemkin. 
RIKER 2: You don't believe me? 
RIKER: It's not that we don't believe you. It's just hard to see how
both stories could be true. Would you be willing have our Doctor check
you out? 
RIKER 2: Of course. 
RIKER: Mister Worf, take him directly to Sickbay, and notify the
Captain once you're on board. Let's get to work. 
WORF: Worf to Enterprise. Two to beam up. 
CREWMAN [OC]: Aye, sir. Stand by. 
