RIKER CRUSHER DATA TROI

[Ten Forward]

(it's jazz night, and the quartet are in full
swing, with Riker on 'bone playing 'Tell them I remember you') 
RIKER: Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you very much.
Any requests tonight? 
TROI: Night Bird. 
(Troi is given a Look) 
RIKER: Any request? 
TROI: Night Bird! 
RIKER: Ladies and gentlemen, Night Bird. One, two. 
CRUSHER: What was that all about? 
TROI: Will's been trying to get this piece right for ten years now.
He's never made it through the solo. 
(he certainly looks worried) 
TROI: Here it comes. 
DATA [OC]: Data to Commander Riker. 
RIKER: Go ahead. 
DATA [OC]: Commander, you are needed on the Bridge. 
RIKER: On my way. Saved by the bell. 
[Bridge]

(at the science stations) 
RIKER: You wanted to see me, Mister Data? 
DATA: Yes, sir. It appears we will be able to transport to the surface
sooner than anticipated. 
RIKER: Is the planet's distortion field re-phasing sooner than we
predicted? 
DATA: No, sir. Using the Potemkin's transport logs from the original
evacuation, Commander La Forge and I were able to modify the
transporters. 
RIKER: So we can beam through a higher distortion field. 
DATA: The transporters are considerably more efficient than those used
on the Potemkin eight years ago. 
RIKER: That's a good thing. I almost didn't make it off the surface.
When can we get started? 
DATA: Ninety seven minutes, sir. 
RIKER: How long will the transport window be open? 
DATA: Twenty six minutes. After that, the distortion field will
re-phase. 
RIKER: That doesn't give us much time to retrieve the database. 
DATA: The planet's proximity to its sun will create two additional
transport windows in the next three days. 
RIKER: Let's hope that's enough. 
DATA: It will have to be, sir. The next transport window will not occur
for another eight years, when the planet's orbit will bring it close
enough to the sun to de-phase the distortion field. 
RIKER: Okay, notify the away team that we're going in ahead of
schedule. I'll tell the Captain. 
DATA: Aye, sir.

