TROI LAFORGE PICARD RIKER CRUSHER DATA

[Sickbay]

CRUSHER: Looks like you fractured your arm a few
years ago. 
RIKER 2: I was doing some repairs under the station when an earthquake
hit. I got caught in a rockslide. I had to set it myself. 
PICARD: Jean-Luc Picard. 
RIKER 2: Lieutenant Will Riker. 
PICARD: I hope you understand our need to verify your claim. 
RIKER 2: Yes, sir. 
CRUSHER: Genetically, he's indistinguishable from Commander Riker. 
PICARD: Could there be some sort of cloning involved here? 
CRUSHER: I don't think so. There's no genetic drift. 
PICARD: But it's not conclusive. 
CRUSHER: That's why I compared their brain scans. Brain organisation
patterns are as unique as fingerprints. Except for minor, minor
differences, theirs are identical. 
PICARD: But can't brain patterns be cloned? 
CRUSHER: No. They're determined by experience, mostly from early
childhood. 
PICARD: How can two grown men share the same childhood experiences? It
just doesn't make any sense. 
RIKER 2: I am Will Riker. I don't know who or what made it back to the
Potemkin that day, but it wasn't me. 
PICARD: Lieutenant, our Chief Engineer is checking the transport logs
of the Potemkin. Perhaps that will shed some light on the matter. Don't
worry, we will get to the bottom of this. And in the meantime, you will
be taken to your quarters. Try and make yourself as comfortable as
possible. 
RIKER 2: I will. The replicators on the station haven't worked for a
long time ago. It's been a while since I've had a decent meal. Doctor. 
[Observation lounge]

LAFORGE: Apparently there was a massive energy
surge in the distortion field around the planet just at the moment you
tried to beam out. The Transporter Chief tried to compensate by
initiating a second containment beam. 
DATA: An interesting approach. He must have been planning to
reintegrate the two patterns in the transport buffer. 
LAFORGE: Actually, it wasn't really necessary. Commander Riker's
pattern maintained its integrity with just the one containment beam. He
made it back to the ship just fine. 
CRUSHER: What happened to the second beam? 
LAFORGE: The Transporter Chief shut it down, but somehow it was
reflected back to the surface. 
PICARD: And another William Riker materialised there. 
RIKER: How was the second pattern able to maintained its integrity? 
LAFORGE: The containment beam must have had the exact same phase
differential as the distortion field. 
RIKER: Which one of them is real? 
LAFORGE: That's the thing. Both. You were both materialised from a
complete pattern. 
CRUSHER: Up until that moment, you were the same person. 
PICARD: But of course, as you and Lieutenant Riker have lived very
different lives for the past eight years, you are now very different
people. I suppose it's a little like meeting someone's twin. But no
matter how strange it may seem to us, we now have two Will Rikers on
board. And as Lieutenant Riker will be with us for several days, I
think we should do everything we can to make him comfortable and
welcome. 
RIKER: We still have the problem of retrieving the database. The
computer on the station is not completely operational. 
DATA: Many of its components have been removed. Apparently Lieutenant
Riker used them to keep the station's radiation shield operational. 
PICARD: Can it be repaired, at least enough to access the database? 
RIKER: Without knowing what he did, that'll be tough. 
PICARD: Perhaps he can help us. 
PICARD: He was alone down there for a long time. I'm hesitant to let
him go back until he's been evaluated. 
TROI: I'll talk to him. 
PICARD: Thank you, Counsellor.

