TROI WAITER PICARD RIKER 2 RIKER CREWWOMAN CRUSHER
given flower meeting quarters won officer commanding crewwoman sworn

[Ten Forward]

(she spots the table with the vase for her flower,
and the gift-wrapped box. It contains a etching.)
RIKER 2: The Janaran falls. 
TROI: I remember. Where did you get this? 
RIKER 2: I made it a couple of years ago down on the station. 
TROI: You made this? 
RIKER 2: You should have seen the first two. It took a while to get a
fine enough beam out of the phaser. 
TROI: It's lovely. Thank you. 
RIKER 2: Can you stay and talk? I wanted to remember our last night
together. 
TROI: So, how does it feel being with people again? 
RIKER 2: Great. Strange. For a long time I did whatever I wanted,
whenever I wanted. It's been hard taking orders again. 
TROI: I can imagine. 
RIKER 2: But I guess I'll have to get used to it if I want to get my
career going again. 
TROI: Is that what you've decided to do? 
RIKER 2: Remember, I'm the one who wanted to make Captain by the time I
was thirty five. I'm a little behind schedule, I'll admit that. 
TROI: It's good you don't feel set back. 
RIKER 2: I do. Things are a little more complicated than I had planned,
but there's nothing going to stand in the way of my getting what I
want. 
WAITER: There you go. 
RIKER 2: Thanks. You don't know how many times I thought about you,
about us. For weeks after the evacuation, I kept thinking they'd find a
way through the distortion field and come back for me. I even thought
we'd meet on Risa like we planned. But days went by and nobody came.
Then I realised why. They thought that I had been killed in the beam
out. No one came down because they thought there was no one to come
down for. So I figured that they'd had a memorial service for me.
Somehow that made me feel better. 
TROI: I can understand that. 
RIKER 2: You were there, all dressed in black. Very flattering on you,
by the way. 
TROI: I'm sure I looked terrible with my eyes all red and swollen from
crying. 
RIKER 2: Sometimes I would look up into the sky and I'd think, if I
tried hard enough, I could make you feel my presence. That if I could
let you know that I was alive, maybe you'd wait for me. I know it
sounds crazy, but there were times when I could've sworn. What am I
talking about? 
TROI: The other day, when I told you about how Commander Riker and I
didn't meet on Risa, what I didn't say was how disappointed I was. 
RIKER 2: You didn't have to. I knew. 
TROI: I started to hear from him less and less. I knew his career was
taking him away from me but I didn't want to believe it was over. I
spent a lot of time thinking about him. Wondering where he was, what he
was doing. Sometimes I'd look into the sky and imagine that he knew,
and that somehow he could sense me thinking about him. So, who knows?
Maybe one night we were looking up at the same star, and you were
thinking about me, and in a way, I was thinking about you.

[Ready room]

PICARD: Come. 
RIKER: You wanted to see me, sir? 
PICARD: Yes, Number One. Come in. 
PICARD: Lieutenant Riker has been to see me to talk about the away
mission. He believes that the only way to retrieve the database is by
directly accessing the main core underneath the station. 
RIKER: The seismic activity makes those caverns very unstable. In my
opinion, it's too risky. 
PICARD: He said that he was down there recently. He seemed confident
that it could be done safely. 
RIKER: There's a good chance we will be able to retrieve the database
from one of the consoles inside the station. 
PICARD: But if it doesn't work, we won't have another chance for eight
years. 
RIKER: Lieutenant Riker's plan is more dangerous, but it does have a
better chance of succeeding. 
PICARD: Given the importance of the data, I think that it's worth the
risk. 
RIKER: I'll look over the schematics and I'll draw up a mission plan. 
PICARD: I'm sure that Lieutenant Riker will be happy to help you with
that. 
RIKER: I'll talk to him.

[Engineering]

CREWWOMAN: (to Riker 2) Sir. 
RIKER: Lieutenant. 
RIKER 2: Sir. 
RIKER: I just met with the Captain about your mission recommendation. I
would appreciate it if next time you came to me first. 
RIKER 2: I tried talking to you yesterday on the station. You wouldn't
hear me out. 
RIKER: I heard you, Lieutenant. I rejected your plan. 
RIKER 2: May I ask what the Captain decided? 
RIKER: The Captain has decided to go with your recommendation, but
that's not the point. 
RIKER 2: Isn't it? 
RIKER: If you think I'm coming down on you because the Captain
overruled me, think again. I happen to disagree with his decision, but
he is my commanding officer and I follow his orders. Just so there's no
confusion, I am your commanding officer and I expect you to do the
same. If you can't, there's no place for you on my away team. 
RIKER 2: Yes, sir. 
RIKER: There will be a meeting in the Observation lounge at fourteen
hundred hours to draw up a mission plan.

[Gymnasium]

(Beverly and Deanna are doing the mok'bara
exercises) 
TROI: We stayed in Ten Forward talking for hours. 
CRUSHER: Then what happened? 
TROI: He walked me to my quarters. 
CRUSHER: Then what happened? 
TROI: Beverly! 
CRUSHER: I'm just asking. 
TROI: You know it's been over between Will and me for a long time. 
CRUSHER: He's not Will. He is Will but, you know what I mean. 
TROI: It's really hard for me to separate my feelings for them. 
CRUSHER: Deanna, just because things turned out the way they did
between you and Commander Riker, doesn't mean you shouldn't let things
between you and Lieutenant Riker take their own course. 
TROI: I knew you'd encourage me. 
CRUSHER: I thought that's that why you brought it up. 
(they resume the forms, as Lt. Riker enters) 
CRUSHER: Well, I think I'll call it a day. 
TROI: (hisses) Beverly. 
(Riker limbers up) 
CRUSHER: Bye. 
RIKER 2: Some form of tai chi chuan? 
TROI: Klingon exercises, actually. Lieutenant Worf teaches a class. 
RIKER 2: The forms are very similar. Do that move again. 
(she does, and he copies) 
TROI: You just did the KoH-man-ara. 
RIKER 2: Tai chi chuan. It's called the crane block. Now let's try
something else. 
(he does a move that reaches out to her, she takes the arm, bends it
back and rolls him onto his back) 
RIKER 2: What was that called? Mister Worf's a very good teacher. 
(and now she has him on the floor, lips connect in a prelude to
horizontal jogging) 
[Ten Forward]

TROI: Hello, Will. 
RIKER: If you want to be with him, you don't have to ask my permission.
It's the look in your eyes. I recognise it. You used to have it for me.

TROI: We've both had relationships with other people. This is
different. I didn't know how you'd feel about it. 
RIKER: Flattered, sort of. 
TROI: This must be very strange for you. 
RIKER: Ever since he came on board, I find myself thinking about the
choice you and I made. 
TROI: Me too. 
RIKER: Do me a favour. Be careful. 
TROI: Will, I know you and he have had some problems. 
RIKER: That's not what I'm talking about. If he had gotten off the
planet instead of me, don't you think he would have made the same
choices that I made? I just don't want you to be hurt again.

