TROI LAFORGE WORF DATA [OC] PICARD RIKER COMPUTER DATA
area section took freeze does thirteen aged support seminar

[Bridge]

RIKER: Report. 
WORF: We are picking up a distress call on long range sensors. It is
Romulan, sir. 
RIKER: Romulan? 
WORF: They claim they have suffered a complete engine failure. Power
levels are dropping. Life support is failing. It could be a trick. 
RIKER: How long before we rendezvous with Captain Picard? 
WORF: Approximately thirteen hours. 
RIKER: Lay in a course for the Romulan ship. Let's put up shields and
go to Red Alert. I want to be ready for anything. 
WORF: Aye, sir. 
Captain's log, stardate 46944.2. Commander Data,
Mister La Forge, Counsellor Troi and I are en route to the Enterprise,
after attending a three day conference on the psychological effects of
long-term deep-space assignments.

[Runabout cockpit]

DATA: Computer activate automatic helm control. 
COMPUTER: Helm control activated.

[Runabout living section]

(Data joins the others for a meal. The runabout is
huge, there is even a
corridor between the cockpit and this area) 
TROI: I was just leaving the reception when this Ktarian walks up to me
and says, (slightly Irish) hello, Diane. I understand you're an empath.
I'm a very sensitive man myself. I'm doing a thesis on interspecies
mating rituals. Would you care to join me in some empirical research? 
LAFORGE: That's a very good impression of Doctor Mizan. 
TROI: How did you know? 
LAFORGE: He's notorious, but he really is an expert on interspecies
mating practices. 
DATA: Did you help him with his research, Counsellor? 
TROI: Absolutely not. 
DATA: I thought it was a topic you were interested in. 
LAFORGE: How did you enjoy the rest of the conference, Counsellor? 
TROI: To be honest, I was bored. I spent most of my time at Professor
Wagner's phylobiology seminar. I thought the idea of the seminar was
that we would all participate, bring different points of views to the
discussion. He gathered two hundred scientists from all over the
Federation, and all he did was put us to sleep. 
DATA: I have a memory record of the entire lecture, Counsellor. I can
repeat the portions you missed, if you 
TROI: No, thank you, Data. 
PICARD: Well, it was little better at the physiognomy workshop. Doctor
Vassbinder gave an hour long dissertation on the ionisation effect of
warp nacelles before he realised that the topic was supposed to be
psychology. 
LAFORGE: Why didn't anybody tell him? 
PICARD: There was no opportunity. There was no pause. (mock Teutonic)
He just kept talking in one long, incredibly unbroken sentence, moving
from topic to topic so that no one had a chance to interrupt. It was
really quite hypnotic. 
LAFORGE: Well, I had a great time. The warp-energy symposium was
fascinating. I actually had an opportunity to touch a plasma field. 
TROI: Really? What was it like? 
LAFORGE: It was incredible. I could feel the plasma moving up my arm.
It was warm and, oh, there was this amazing tingling sensation that 
(Troi sees that everyone else has stopped in mid-whatever) 
TROI: Captain? Data? 
LAFORGE: Moved through my chest. It was incredible. It was like taking
a bath in pure energy. 
DATA: It was not painful? 
LAFORGE: Oh, no. Counsellor? Is there something wrong? 
TROI: I'm not sure. 
(after the opening titles) 
LAFORGE: Well, our bioscans check out. There are no physiological
anomalies. If something did happen, it didn't leave any biological
traces. 
PICARD: How long did it appear to you that we were frozen? 
TROI: I don't know. Four, maybe five seconds. You just stopped and then
started again. I can't explain it. 
DATA: My memory record does not indicate a pause or disruption during
that time period. My internal chronometer and the ship's computer are
both perfectly synchronised. There does not appear to be a temporal
discrepancy. 
LAFORGE: Data, let's run a ship-wide diagnostic. Maybe we missed
something. 
(Data and La Forge leave) 
PICARD: Let's go through all this again. You were sitting there. The
rest of us were here. Describe the exact moment when we appeared to
freeze. 
TROI: Well, Geordi was talking about what it felt like to touch the
plasma field and you were taking a sip of tea. 
PICARD: Did you sense something from any of us at that time? Any
unusual emotion? 
TROI: Not a thing. I was empathically aware of you right up to the
moment you froze, and then it all stopped. (plexes) The past few days
have been exhausting. Maybe it was my imagination. There were moments
in that lecture hall when I thought time was standing still there, too.

PICARD: Or there is another possibility, Counsellor. This could be
nothing more than simple 
(Troi has a start. Picard is now next to her waving a hand in front of
her face) 
PICARD: Are you all right, Counsellor? 
TROI: What happened? 
DATA: You were motionless for three minutes eleven seconds. 
PICARD: It appears to be the same effect that you described in us. Do
you remember anything? 
TROI: No. One second I was talking to you, and the next you were all
standing around me. 
LAFORGE: Wait a second. This is weird. 
TROI: What is it? 
LAFORGE: I had the tricorder run a comparison between the bioscan I
took of you earlier and the one I took just now. In the time between
the two scans, you should have aged twenty three minutes, but according
to your cellular decay levels you've only aged twenty minutes. 
PICARD: How do you account for this discrepancy? 
LAFORGE: I don't know, sir. It's as if for Counsellor Troi, for three
minutes time just stopped. 
PICARD: Mister Data, contact the Enterprise. Tell Commander Riker to
meet us at the rendezvous point as soon as possible. Have him scan the
region for temporal anomalies. 
DATA: Aye, sir. 
LAFORGE: I'll check the sensor logs, see if I can find anything. 
DATA [OC]: Captain, may I see you?

