TROI LAFORGE PICARD ALIEN ROMULAN DATA

[Transporter room]

(Worf is at the controls as injured Romulans are
stepping off the pads) 
PICARD: Excuse me, Mister Worf. 
(Picard moves Worf's hand) 
TROI: Captain. 
PICARD: Counsellor, take a look at this. It appears that Mister Worf
had just beamed these three on board, and according to this, three
other Romulans had been beamed directly to Sickbay just seconds
earlier. 
TROI: I know. I just saw them. 
PICARD: What are we doing transporting Romulans on board the ship in
the middle of a battle? They don't have any weapons and that one looks
injured. If they were part of an invasion, then why are they unarmed?
It doesn't make any sense. 
TROI: Captain, there's something I have to tell you. Doctor Crusher has
been hit by a disruptor blast at point blank range. If time returns to
normal I don't see how she can survive. 
DATA [OC]: Data to Captain Picard. 
PICARD: Go ahead, Mister Data. 
DATA [OC]: Please come to Engineering immediately. It is urgent.

[Engineering]

PICARD: What's the problem, Mister Data? 
DATA: Captain, I believe I have found the cause of the power surge.
There is a warp core breach in progress. 
(there's a puff of smoke/steam coming out of the warp core) 
DATA: It is the flashpoint of a warp core explosion. And it is
expanding. 
PICARD: Expanding? I thought that time was suspended on this ship. 
DATA: We were incorrect, sir. I have determined that time is moving
forward at an infinitesimal rate. 
TROI: Why didn't we notice it before? 
DATA: Our initial conclusion was based on our observations of the crew.
A warp core breach moves at a much faster rate. The motion of the cloud
is within my visual detection threshold. At its current expansion rate,
it will consume the Enterprise in approximately nine hours, seventeen
minutes. 
PICARD: Is there anything we can do to stop it? 
DATA: It is no longer a question of stopping it, sir. The explosion has
already occurred. The fact that it is moving slowly changes nothing. 
PICARD: Astonishing to see it frozen like this. 
TROI: Do we know what caused the breach? 
DATA: No. However, the console displays indicate a power transfer in
progress between the Enterprise and the Romulan ship at the moment time
decelerated. That is why there is a second beam between the two ships. 
TROI: Why would we be sending them power? 
DATA: Perhaps we should go aboard the Romulan ship. The answer to that
question may 
(Picard is laughing) 
DATA: Captain? 
(Picard has drawn a smiley face in the cloud. He laughs and points,
then staggers) 
TROI: Captain, are you all right? 
PICARD: My head. Oh. Dizzy. I can't. (laughs then panics) No! No! 
TROI: Troi to La Forge. Get us out of here now!

[Runabout living section]

LAFORGE: It looks like you weren't completely
protected from the effects of the other time continuum. The
neurophysical stress must've been overwhelming. 
DATA: In much the same way deep sea divers experience nitrogen
narcosis, you experienced a form of temporal narcosis. 
PICARD: Can we modify the subspace isolators to give us better
protection? 
LAFORGE: I don't think so. I'd say the best thing we can do right now
is to be careful, limit our exposure to their time frame. I'd say no
longer than ten minutes per trip. And we should stick probably stick
together while we're there, just in case. 
PICARD: Very well. Well, the first step is to find out why the
Enterprise was transferring power to the Romulan ship.
I think we should begin our search in the Romulan engine room.
Counsellor, you spent several days on a Romulan vessel. You probably
know more about the layouts than anyone here. Perhaps 
TROI: Captain, it might be better if you stayed here this time and gave
yourself a chance to recover. 
PICARD: Yes, very well. I will monitor your progress from here. But
just remember, ten minutes, no more. 
TROI: Yes, Captain.

[Warbird Engineering]

TROI: Geordi, there should be a power utilisation
monitor over there. Data. 
DATA: This is highly unusual. The crew is not at battle stations. The
ship is on evacuation alert. 
TROI: Is that why Romulans were being transported to the Enterprise? 
LAFORGE: Take a look at this. There's an energy feedback returning
through the transfer beam. It's probably what overloaded the
Enterprise's engines and caused the core breach. 
DATA: Perhaps the warbird was trying to destroy the Enterprise. 
LAFORGE: I don't think so. According to this, the Romulans were
actually trying to shut down the power transfer. 
TROI: Whatever happened, this is beginning to look less and less like a
Romulan attack. 
LAFORGE: Data, why don't we take a look at their engine readouts? 
DATA: Geordi, the engine core is completely inactive. 
TROI: That's impossible. The Romulans use an artificial quantum
singularity as their power source. Once it's activated, it can't be
shut down. 
LAFORGE: Let's take a closer look. 
(he opens the equivalent of the dilithium chamber) 
LAFORGE: I think we've found the problem. 
DATA: It appears to be a highly focused aperture in the space-time
continuum. Its energy signature matches that of the temporal fragments
we observed earlier. However, it is approximately one point two million
times as
intense. I believe this may be the origin of the temporal
fragmentation. 
TROI: What are these dark spots? 
DATA: I am not certain. They exhibit a complex bioelectric patterns.
Very possibly organic. 
LAFORGE: Organic? 
DATA: From the molecular configuration, it appears (tricorder beeps)
The aperture is beginning to fluctuate. I believe 
(there's a bright light and the Romulans start moving. One behaves very
strangely indeed) 
ROMULAN: There's an energy build-up in the phase compensation unit. 
ROMULAN 2: Check the main distribution matrix. 
ROMULAN: That's not it. The matrix is clear. It's the power transfer
from the Enterprise. I'm reading a massive feed-back. 
ROMULAN 2: Systems are beginning to overload. 
ROMULAN: Notify the Enterprise to shut down the power transfer
immediately. 
ROMULAN 2: Unable to comply. Their power interlocks won't disengage.
We'll have to disconnect it ourselves. 
ROMULAN: Disconnect the transfer beam. 
ROMULAN 3: There is no pressure. 
ROMULAN: Impending warp core breach. Shut down all systems. 
(Picard watches as the Enterprise explodes, then reforms as time runs
backwards again) 
(the dialogue goes backwards until time stops where it was previously) 
DATA: I believe my tricorder emissions caused the temporal aperture to
activate. I suggest we avoid exposing it to any 
[Runabout cockpit]

DATA [OC]: Further energy emissions. 
PICARD: When time resumed, did you observe any activity in the engine
room that might 
[Romulan Engineering]

PICARD [OC]: Suggest what the Romulans were doing? 
DATA: They may have been attempting to eject their engine core. 
TROI: I thought I heard one of the Engineers say something about a
power transfer. Something about an energy feedback. 
LAFORGE: Yes, Captain. It looks to me like they were trying to stop
whatever was happening here. 
PICARD [OC]: Mister La Forge 
[Runabout living section]

PICARD: From where you are, can you determine
what's happening on the Romulan Bridge? 
[Romulan Engineering]

LAFORGE: I think so, Captain. Wait. Something's not
right here. Data, was this man always standing right here. 
(the Romulan grabs Geordi, there's an energy flash and they both fall.
Geordi is convulsing) 
TROI: He's in neural shock, 
DATA: We must get him to the runabout. 
TROI: There isn't time. He's dying. 
(she takes Geordi's armband off) 
TROI: At least this way, he'll be alive in the other time frame. We
might have a chance to save him later. Is the Romulan still alive? 
DATA: Yes, but I am getting unusual readings from his bioscan. I am not
sure he is a Romulan.

[Runabout living section]

DATA: His cellular structure does not conform to
any known species. His bioelectric patterns are in a state of temporal
flux. I do not believe that this being is native to our time continuum.

PICARD: Mister Data, you said that you found organic matter in the
temporal aperture. 
DATA: Correct, sir. 
PICARD: I'd like to take a closer look at those readings. 
(Data calls them up on the wall monitor) 
DATA: This is a biospectral analysis of the temporal aperture. The
organic readings originated from these dark spots. 
PICARD: They appear to contain some sort of energy patterns. Can you
isolate one of them and magnify? 
(Data does so) 
PICARD: They look like cellular clusters. 
DATA: Its bioelectric patterns are similar to those of the alien's.
However, they are significantly less complex. Its cellular structure
appears to be in a state of mitosis. 
PICARD: Data, this could be some sort of embryo. 
DATA: It is possible. If I could further scan the aperture, it might be
possible to 
TROI: Captain? 
(the alien is awake) 
ALIEN: Must save. No. 
PICARD: Who are you? 
ALIEN: This body is not mine. It was necessary to assume it to exist in
your time. 
TROI: Why are you here? 
ALIEN: We had to come to save them. They were in danger. 
PICARD: Who were in danger? 
ALIEN: Our young. They will die in the gravity well. It is artificial. 
TROI: Artificial gravity well? Do you mean the Romulan engine core? 
ALIEN: Yes. Our young are trapped. We must get them out, return them to
our time. 
DATA: His molecular structure is destabilising. 
PICARD: How were your young trapped in the core? 
ALIEN: We must use a natural gravity well to incubate our young. We
thought the Romulan core would suffice. It did not. 
DATA: Captain, I believe the aliens mistook the artificial singularity,
which the Romulans use in their engine, for a natural one. A black
hole. They tried to use it as a nest. 
TROI: That's what deactivated the Warbird's engine core. So the
Romulans sent out a distress call. 
PICARD: The Enterprise responded, and found the warbird suffering from
an apparent engine failure, and they attempted a power transfer. 
ALIEN: Power transfer. Must stop the power transfer. Ruptured time,
destroy our young 
DATA: When the power transfer came into contact with the alien nest, I
believe it disrupted the space-time continuum. 
PICARD: Did you who attacked the Enterprise? 
ALIEN: Yes. Had to stop power transfer. 
PICARD: Are there any others like you here? 
ALIEN: One other. 
PICARD: Do you know where he is? Could he help us restore normal time? 
(but the alien vanishes) 
(later) 
DATA: I estimate the core breach will consume the Enterprise in
approximately seven hours, two minutes. 
PICARD: Is it possible to lock onto the core itself, beam it into
space? 
DATA: No, sir. We would have to surround the core with a subspace
isolation field. It is not possible to generate a field of that
magnitude from the runabout. 
PICARD: Mister Data, when you scanned the temporal aperture with your
tricorder, it caused time to move forwards and then back again. 
DATA: Correct, sir. 
PICARD: What if we could reverse that process? Cause time move
backwards and then forwards. 
TROI: We might be able to run time back to a point before the warp core
breach occurred and then find a way to prevent the power transfer. And
then when time goes forward 
PICARD: The breach never happens. 
DATA: I could attempt to remodulate the tricorder's delta-band
emissions. It should be possible to better control the temporal
aperture. 
PICARD: Make it so. If this works, we may not have much time to prevent
the power transfer. We'll have to decide precisely where to be and what
to do the very instant that time begins to move backwards. 
Captain's log, supplemental. After placing the
modified tricorder on the Romulan ship, we have returned to the
Enterprise. 
