PICARD TROI DATA LAFORGE

[Runabout living section]

(Data joins the others for a meal. The runabout is
huge, there is even a
corridor between the cockpit and this area) 
TROI: I was just leaving the reception when this Ktarian walks up to me
and says, (slightly Irish) hello, Diane. I understand you're an empath.
I'm a very sensitive man myself. I'm doing a thesis on interspecies
mating rituals. Would you care to join me in some empirical research? 
LAFORGE: That's a very good impression of Doctor Mizan. 
TROI: How did you know? 
LAFORGE: He's notorious, but he really is an expert on interspecies
mating practices. 
DATA: Did you help him with his research, Counsellor? 
TROI: Absolutely not. 
DATA: I thought it was a topic you were interested in. 
LAFORGE: How did you enjoy the rest of the conference, Counsellor? 
TROI: To be honest, I was bored. I spent most of my time at Professor
Wagner's phylobiology seminar. I thought the idea of the seminar was
that we would all participate, bring different points of views to the
discussion. He gathered two hundred scientists from all over the
Federation, and all he did was put us to sleep. 
DATA: I have a memory record of the entire lecture, Counsellor. I can
repeat the portions you missed, if you 
TROI: No, thank you, Data. 
PICARD: Well, it was little better at the physiognomy workshop. Doctor
Vassbinder gave an hour long dissertation on the ionisation effect of
warp nacelles before he realised that the topic was supposed to be
psychology. 
LAFORGE: Why didn't anybody tell him? 
PICARD: There was no opportunity. There was no pause. (mock Teutonic)
He just kept talking in one long, incredibly unbroken sentence, moving
from topic to topic so that no one had a chance to interrupt. It was
really quite hypnotic. 
LAFORGE: Well, I had a great time. The warp-energy symposium was
fascinating. I actually had an opportunity to touch a plasma field. 
TROI: Really? What was it like? 
LAFORGE: It was incredible. I could feel the plasma moving up my arm.
It was warm and, oh, there was this amazing tingling sensation that 
(Troi sees that everyone else has stopped in mid-whatever) 
TROI: Captain? Data? 
LAFORGE: Moved through my chest. It was incredible. It was like taking
a bath in pure energy. 
DATA: It was not painful? 
LAFORGE: Oh, no. Counsellor? Is there something wrong? 
TROI: I'm not sure. 
(after the opening titles) 
LAFORGE: Well, our bioscans check out. There are no physiological
anomalies. If something did happen, it didn't leave any biological
traces. 
PICARD: How long did it appear to you that we were frozen? 
TROI: I don't know. Four, maybe five seconds. You just stopped and then
started again. I can't explain it. 
DATA: My memory record does not indicate a pause or disruption during
that time period. My internal chronometer and the ship's computer are
both perfectly synchronised. There does not appear to be a temporal
discrepancy. 
LAFORGE: Data, let's run a ship-wide diagnostic. Maybe we missed
something. 
(Data and La Forge leave) 
PICARD: Let's go through all this again. You were sitting there. The
rest of us were here. Describe the exact moment when we appeared to
freeze. 
TROI: Well, Geordi was talking about what it felt like to touch the
plasma field and you were taking a sip of tea. 
PICARD: Did you sense something from any of us at that time? Any
unusual emotion? 
TROI: Not a thing. I was empathically aware of you right up to the
moment you froze, and then it all stopped. (plexes) The past few days
have been exhausting. Maybe it was my imagination. There were moments
in that lecture hall when I thought time was standing still there, too.

PICARD: Or there is another possibility, Counsellor. This could be
nothing more than simple 
(Troi has a start. Picard is now next to her waving a hand in front of
her face) 
PICARD: Are you all right, Counsellor? 
TROI: What happened? 
DATA: You were motionless for three minutes eleven seconds. 
PICARD: It appears to be the same effect that you described in us. Do
you remember anything? 
TROI: No. One second I was talking to you, and the next you were all
standing around me. 
LAFORGE: Wait a second. This is weird. 
TROI: What is it? 
LAFORGE: I had the tricorder run a comparison between the bioscan I
took of you earlier and the one I took just now. In the time between
the two scans, you should have aged twenty three minutes, but according
to your cellular decay levels you've only aged twenty minutes. 
PICARD: How do you account for this discrepancy? 
LAFORGE: I don't know, sir. It's as if for Counsellor Troi, for three
minutes time just stopped. 
PICARD: Mister Data, contact the Enterprise. Tell Commander Riker to
meet us at the rendezvous point as soon as possible. Have him scan the
region for temporal anomalies. 
DATA: Aye, sir. 
LAFORGE: I'll check the sensor logs, see if I can find anything. 
DATA [OC]: Captain, may I see you?

[Runabout cockpit]

DATA: The Enterprise is not responding to our
hails. 
PICARD: Are we within sensor range? 
DATA: No, sir. 
PICARD: Increase speed to the rendezvous coordinates. 
DATA: Aye, sir. 
(later, Geordi and Data are at the controls when there's a noise,
alarms and the vessel tilts) 
DATA: We have an engine failure warning in the 
PICARD: Report! 
LAFORGE: The starboard nacelle just cut out. 
DATA: Attitude control has been restored. 
PICARD: Full stop. What happened? 
LAFORGE: The starboard antimatter pod is completely drained. The fuel
reserves are empty. 
PICARD: Is there a fuel containment leak? 
LAFORGE: No, sir. The containment field is intact. all engine systems
are operational. The fuel is just gone. 
DATA: Geordi, I believe I have an explanation. According to the plasma
conversion sensor, the starboard engine has been in continuous
operation for forty seven days. 
LAFORGE: Forty seven days? Nah. Let's check that sensor. It must be
malfunctioning. 
PICARD: I'll check the fuel consumption logs. 
[Runabout living section]

(Picard goes to the console, then smells something.
The fruit in the bowl has
become moldy. He reaches towards it and shouts in pain. His fingernails
have grown a good half inch. The others rush in.) 
TROI: What happened? 
(Troi uses a medical tricorder) 
PICARD: My hand. 
TROI: The cells are metabolising at an incredible speed. Almost fifty
times normal. 
PICARD: The pain is going away. 
TROI: Your metabolism's stabilising. 
PICARD: It happened when I reached for the bowl of fruit. 
(the fruit is now totally decayed. Data uses his tricorder) 
DATA: Captain, I am detecting a temporal disturbance intersecting the
table. It appears that within the disturbance, time is moving at an
accelerated rate, approximately fifty times faster than normal. The
disturbance is spherical in shape. It is extending outward from the
hull approximately seventeen metres from the ship. 
LAFORGE: That would cover the starboard nacelle. No wonder it used up
all its fuel. 
PICARD: Check the hull integrity. 
DATA: It does not appear to be affected. 
PICARD: Mister La Forge, see if you can move us away from the
disturbance. 
LAFORGE: Aye, sir.

