PICARD TROI DATA LAFORGE

[Runabout living section]

LAFORGE [OC]: I think you'd better come take a look
at this. 
[Runabout cockpit]

(everyone is now in the cockpit) 
PICARD: Yes, Mister La Forge? 
LAFORGE: The sensors are picking up temporal disturbances throughout
the region. Different configurations, different sizes. They're
everywhere. 
DATA: Within each disturbance it appears that time is moving at a
different rate. 
LAFORGE: It's almost as if something has shattered the space-time
continuum. 
DATA: The fragmentation effect continues along a heading of two seven
zero mark one five. 
LAFORGE: That's the direction of the Enterprise. 
PICARD: Can we navigate around these fragments? 
LAFORGE: We'll have to limit our manoeuvring speed to one half impulse,
but I think we can do it. 
PICARD: Get us to the Enterprise. 
(later) 
LAFORGE: These are the coordinates. 
PICARD: Perhaps the Enterprise has been delayed. 
LAFORGE: I've got the long range sensors on maximum, sir. There's no
sign of the Enterprise. But I am picking up a faint reading. Possibly
metallic. It's difficult to tell. The energy levels are practically
non-existent. 
PICARD: Take us to it. 
LAFORGE: Aye, sir. 
DATA: The fragmentation effect is increasing. 
LAFORGE: Slowing to one eighth impulse. 
PICARD: There she is. 
TROI: My God. 
(Enterprise is hanging nose to nose with a Romulan warbird. An orange
line and a green dotted line link the two ships.) 
PICARD: Mister Data? 
DATA: The Enterprise and the warbird both appear to be trapped within
one of the temporal fragments. 
LAFORGE: The fragments seem to be converging at about this point. I'd
say we're looking at the centre of the temporal disturbances. 
PICARD: Scan for life signs. 
DATA: Sensors cannot penetrate the subspace field. I am unable to scan
within the vessels. 
TROI: It looks like the Enterprise has been damaged. There, on the port
nacelle. 
LAFORGE: The warbird doesn't look to have sustained any damage at all.
I wonder if the Enterprise even had time to get off a shot. 
TROI: The Romulans could've decloaked before the Enterprise had a
chance to respond. 
PICARD: There's a second energy beam. It's coming from the Enterprise
deflector array. Do you have any idea what that could be? 
DATA: It is impossible to tell from a visual inspection. However, it
appears to be focused on the warbird's Engineering section. 
PICARD: We're not going to be able to determine anything from here. We
need to get on board the Enterprise. 
DATA: That would be inadvisable, sir. In each of the three instances we
came into contact with one of the temporal fragments, we were
integrated into its time frame. 
LAFORGE: If we beamed aboard the Enterprise, we'd be frozen in time
just like they are. 
PICARD: Well, we have to find some way of staying unfrozen. Mister La
Forge, what about a subspace forcefield like the one we used on Devidia
Two? Could something like that protect us from the effects of the
temporal fragment? 
LAFORGE: Possibly. We'd need an awfully sensitive phase discriminator
in order to moderate that kind of field. 
DATA: The emergency transporter armbands contain a type seven phase
discriminator. It should be possible to reconfigure their subspace
emitters. 
LAFORGE: Yeah. Yeah, that would certainly isolate us from the effects
of the other time frame. But if we wanted to interact with that
environment, we'd have to restrict the field. It would have to be
practically skintight. 
PICARD: Mister Data? 
DATA: I will attempt to narrow the field, sir. 
LAFORGE: Captain, I think this is going to work, but it's going to take
some time. 
PICARD: Well, Mister La Forge, it would seem that time is something we
have plenty of. 
(later) 
LAFORGE: We've channelled all communications through the subspace
relays in the armbands. That way we'll be able to be in continual
communication. 
TROI: How long will the fields last? 
LAFORGE: About an hour, maybe less. Don't worry. I'll monitor you very
carefully. 
(Geordi switches on the armbands and Troi falls into Data's arms) 
DATA: Counsellor? 
TROI: I got a little dizzy for a second. 
LAFORGE: We've created an artificial pocket of time around you, so it's
probably playing tricks with your equilibrium. It might take a little
while to get used to it. Let me know if it gets any worse. 
PICARD: Beam us directly to the Enterprise Bridge. 
LAFORGE: Aye, sir. Energising. 
[Bridge]

(a Romulan is leaning over a fallen Riker) 
PICARD: There are three Romulans, all of them with disruptors. One at
conn. There are none of our security officers on the Bridge. They must
have taken us by surprise. It appears that we can move objects in this
time frame. 
TROI: Maybe we could do something to help Will. 
PICARD: I'm wary about making changes in this time continuum until we
understand more about what's going on. 
DATA: Captain, the equipment is no longer functioning. However, the
information currently displayed indicates that there was a massive
power surge in Engineering. 
(Picard checks the tactical station. Worf is not on duty) 
PICARD: Security teams had just been sent to transporter room three.
And to Sickbay. Counsellor, will you go to Sickbay and investigate?
Mister Data, go to main Engineering. See if you can determine the cause
of that power surge. I'll be in transporter room three. Mister La
Forge? 
LAFORGE [OC]: La Forge here, sir. 
PICARD: Will you lock onto our signals. I want you to beam Counsellor
Troi to 
LAFORGE [OC]: I'd rather not, Captain. We've got limited power and your
isolation fields consume a lot of energy. 
PICARD: Understood. We'll use the Jefferies tube. Let's go.

[Jefferies tube]

(they climb down to an intersection and open the
bulkhead to carry on down, but there are three crewmembers there,
blocking their way) 
TROI: Maybe we can go around them. 
PICARD: No, we'll find an alternative route. Let's go back up.

[Corridor]

(walking along, Troi nearly bumps into a woman.
Outside Sickbay there are armed
security about to enter)

[Sickbay]

(inside, Troi sees Beverly being shot by a Romulan.
Troi runs out and a Romulan woman moves)

[Transporter room]

(Worf is at the controls as injured Romulans are
stepping off the pads) 
PICARD: Excuse me, Mister Worf. 
(Picard moves Worf's hand) 
TROI: Captain. 
PICARD: Counsellor, take a look at this. It appears that Mister Worf
had just beamed these three on board, and according to this, three
other Romulans had been beamed directly to Sickbay just seconds
earlier. 
TROI: I know. I just saw them. 
PICARD: What are we doing transporting Romulans on board the ship in
the middle of a battle? They don't have any weapons and that one looks
injured. If they were part of an invasion, then why are they unarmed?
It doesn't make any sense. 
TROI: Captain, there's something I have to tell you. Doctor Crusher has
been hit by a disruptor blast at point blank range. If time returns to
normal I don't see how she can survive. 
DATA [OC]: Data to Captain Picard. 
PICARD: Go ahead, Mister Data. 
DATA [OC]: Please come to Engineering immediately. It is urgent.

[Engineering]

PICARD: What's the problem, Mister Data? 
DATA: Captain, I believe I have found the cause of the power surge.
There is a warp core breach in progress. 
(there's a puff of smoke/steam coming out of the warp core) 
DATA: It is the flashpoint of a warp core explosion. And it is
expanding. 
PICARD: Expanding? I thought that time was suspended on this ship. 
DATA: We were incorrect, sir. I have determined that time is moving
forward at an infinitesimal rate. 
TROI: Why didn't we notice it before? 
DATA: Our initial conclusion was based on our observations of the crew.
A warp core breach moves at a much faster rate. The motion of the cloud
is within my visual detection threshold. At its current expansion rate,
it will consume the Enterprise in approximately nine hours, seventeen
minutes. 
PICARD: Is there anything we can do to stop it? 
DATA: It is no longer a question of stopping it, sir. The explosion has
already occurred. The fact that it is moving slowly changes nothing. 
PICARD: Astonishing to see it frozen like this. 
TROI: Do we know what caused the breach? 
DATA: No. However, the console displays indicate a power transfer in
progress between the Enterprise and the Romulan ship at the moment time
decelerated. That is why there is a second beam between the two ships. 
TROI: Why would we be sending them power? 
DATA: Perhaps we should go aboard the Romulan ship. The answer to that
question may 
(Picard is laughing) 
DATA: Captain? 
(Picard has drawn a smiley face in the cloud. He laughs and points,
then staggers) 
TROI: Captain, are you all right? 
PICARD: My head. Oh. Dizzy. I can't. (laughs then panics) No! No! 
TROI: Troi to La Forge. Get us out of here now!

[Runabout living section]

LAFORGE: It looks like you weren't completely
protected from the effects of the other time continuum. The
neurophysical stress must've been overwhelming. 
DATA: In much the same way deep sea divers experience nitrogen
narcosis, you experienced a form of temporal narcosis. 
PICARD: Can we modify the subspace isolators to give us better
protection? 
LAFORGE: I don't think so. I'd say the best thing we can do right now
is to be careful, limit our exposure to their time frame. I'd say no
longer than ten minutes per trip. And we should stick probably stick
together while we're there, just in case. 
PICARD: Very well. Well, the first step is to find out why the
Enterprise was transferring power to the Romulan ship.
I think we should begin our search in the Romulan engine room.
Counsellor, you spent several days on a Romulan vessel. You probably
know more about the layouts than anyone here. Perhaps 
TROI: Captain, it might be better if you stayed here this time and gave
yourself a chance to recover. 
PICARD: Yes, very well. I will monitor your progress from here. But
just remember, ten minutes, no more. 
TROI: Yes, Captain.

