PICARD TROI DATA LAFORGE

[Runabout cockpit]

DATA: The Enterprise is not responding to our
hails. 
PICARD: Are we within sensor range? 
DATA: No, sir. 
PICARD: Increase speed to the rendezvous coordinates. 
DATA: Aye, sir. 
(later, Geordi and Data are at the controls when there's a noise,
alarms and the vessel tilts) 
DATA: We have an engine failure warning in the 
PICARD: Report! 
LAFORGE: The starboard nacelle just cut out. 
DATA: Attitude control has been restored. 
PICARD: Full stop. What happened? 
LAFORGE: The starboard antimatter pod is completely drained. The fuel
reserves are empty. 
PICARD: Is there a fuel containment leak? 
LAFORGE: No, sir. The containment field is intact. all engine systems
are operational. The fuel is just gone. 
DATA: Geordi, I believe I have an explanation. According to the plasma
conversion sensor, the starboard engine has been in continuous
operation for forty seven days. 
LAFORGE: Forty seven days? Nah. Let's check that sensor. It must be
malfunctioning. 
PICARD: I'll check the fuel consumption logs. 
[Runabout living section]

(Picard goes to the console, then smells something.
The fruit in the bowl has
become moldy. He reaches towards it and shouts in pain. His fingernails
have grown a good half inch. The others rush in.) 
TROI: What happened? 
(Troi uses a medical tricorder) 
PICARD: My hand. 
TROI: The cells are metabolising at an incredible speed. Almost fifty
times normal. 
PICARD: The pain is going away. 
TROI: Your metabolism's stabilising. 
PICARD: It happened when I reached for the bowl of fruit. 
(the fruit is now totally decayed. Data uses his tricorder) 
DATA: Captain, I am detecting a temporal disturbance intersecting the
table. It appears that within the disturbance, time is moving at an
accelerated rate, approximately fifty times faster than normal. The
disturbance is spherical in shape. It is extending outward from the
hull approximately seventeen metres from the ship. 
LAFORGE: That would cover the starboard nacelle. No wonder it used up
all its fuel. 
PICARD: Check the hull integrity. 
DATA: It does not appear to be affected. 
PICARD: Mister La Forge, see if you can move us away from the
disturbance. 
LAFORGE: Aye, sir.

[Runabout cockpit]

LAFORGE: Lateral thrusters online. Data, plot a
course away from the disturbance. 
