TROI LAFORGE WORF PICARD RIKER CRUSHER DATA NECHAYEV
colleague figure reference emotions looks determine ship difference constructed

[Observation lounge]

RIKER: They were fast, aggressive, almost vicious.
it was more like fighting Klingons than Borg. No offence. 
WORF: None taken. 
RIKER: There was another difference. I don't believe they were part of
the Borg collective. I think they were acting as individuals. 
PICARD: What? 
RIKER: One of them referred to himself as I. 
WORF: And that Borg also showed concern for a fallen comrade. He even
called him by name. 
TROI: The only Borg who had a name was Hugh. And we gave it to him. 
CRUSHER: Maybe Hugh has something to do with this change in their
behaviour. 
PICARD: Did they show any interest in assimilating you or your
technology? 
RIKER: They seemed more concerned with the death of their colleague and
with destroying us. I didn't see anything that suggested they wanted to
assimilate anybody. 
PICARD: The Borg's entire existence was centred around acquiring
cultures and technology. If that's changed, then they must have a new
objective. We have to find out what it is. Mister Worf, from this
moment on, I want to maintain a level two security alert. Post armed
officers on every deck. 
WORF: Aye, sir. 
PICARD: Number One, I want you to analyse our sensor readings of the
Borg ship. Try to determine if it was something they constructed or an
alien ship which they captured. Then run an analysis of this subspace
distortion they used to escape. 
RIKER: Aye, sir. 
PICARD: I'm going to contact Starfleet Command.

[Engineering]

LAFORGE: Well, the positronic net checks out.
Everything else looks fine. 
DATA: My internal diagnostic also finds nothing wrong. 
LAFORGE: I don't know, Data. There's nothing here that would indicate
anything that might cause an sort of behavioural anomaly. 
DATA: I agree. Geordi, I believe I've experienced my first emotion. 
LAFORGE: No offence, Data, but how would you know a flash of anger from
some odd kind of power surge? 
DATA: You are correct in that I have no frame of reference to confirm
my hypothesis. In fact, I am unable to provide a verbal description of
the experience. Perhaps you could describe how it feels to be angry. I
could then use that as a reference. 
LAFORGE: Well, okay. When I feel angry, first I feel hostile. 
DATA: Could you describe feeling hostile? 
LAFORGE: It's like feeling belligerent, combative. 
DATA: Could you describe feeling angry without referring to other
feelings? 
LAFORGE: No, I guess I can't. I just feel angry. 
DATA: That was my experience as well. I simply felt angry. 
LAFORGE: Well, let's say you're right and this is a real emotion. How
is that possible? 
DATA: I do not know. Perhaps I have evolved to the point where emotions
are within my grasp. Perhaps I will experience other emotions as time
goes by. 
LAFORGE: Well, I hope you're right. I'd hate to think that anger is all
you're capable of feeling. 

 Captain's log, stardate 46984.6. No additional
Borg attacks have been reported in the past two days. However,
Starfleet has dispatched Admiral Nechayev to take command in this
sector in preparation for a possible Borg invasion.

[Ready room]

(the Admiral is a petite blonde) 
NECHAYEV: There will be fifteen starships in this sector by the day
after tomorrow. The Gorkon will be my flagship. You'll take command of
task force three, consisting of the Enterprise, the Crazy Horse and the
Agamemnon. 
PICARD: Understood. 
NECHAYEV: Captain, I've read the report that you submitted to Admiral
Brooks last year regarding the Borg you called Hugh, and I've been
trying to figure out why you let him go. 
PICARD: I thought that I had made that clear. 
NECHAYEV: As I understand, it you found a single Borg at a crash site,
brought it aboard the Enterprise, studied it, analysed it, and
eventually found a way to send it back to the Borg with a programme
that would have destroyed the entire collective once and for all. But
instead, you nursed the Borg back to health, treated it like a guest,
gave it a name, and then sent it home. Why? 
PICARD: When Hugh was separated from the Borg collective he began to
grow and to evolve into something other than an automaton. He became a
person. When that happened, I felt I had no choice but to respect his
rights as an individual. 
NECHAYEV: Of course you had a choice. You could've taken the
opportunity to rid the Federation of a mortal enemy, one that has
killed tens of thousands of innocent people, and which may kill even
more. 
PICARD: No one is more aware of the danger than I am. But I am also
bound by my oath and my conscience to uphold certain principles. And I
will not sacrifice them in order to 
NECHAYEV: Your priority is to safeguard the lives of Federation
citizens, not to wrestle with your conscience. Now I want to make it
clear that if you have a similar opportunity in the future, an
opportunity to destroy the Borg, you are under orders to take advantage
of it. Is that understood? 
PICARD: Yes, sir.

