PICARD TROI DATA LAFORGE NECHAYEV
wrestle listened reference began exactly exploration kill behavioural served

[Engineering]

LAFORGE: Well, the positronic net checks out.
Everything else looks fine. 
DATA: My internal diagnostic also finds nothing wrong. 
LAFORGE: I don't know, Data. There's nothing here that would indicate
anything that might cause an sort of behavioural anomaly. 
DATA: I agree. Geordi, I believe I've experienced my first emotion. 
LAFORGE: No offence, Data, but how would you know a flash of anger from
some odd kind of power surge? 
DATA: You are correct in that I have no frame of reference to confirm
my hypothesis. In fact, I am unable to provide a verbal description of
the experience. Perhaps you could describe how it feels to be angry. I
could then use that as a reference. 
LAFORGE: Well, okay. When I feel angry, first I feel hostile. 
DATA: Could you describe feeling hostile? 
LAFORGE: It's like feeling belligerent, combative. 
DATA: Could you describe feeling angry without referring to other
feelings? 
LAFORGE: No, I guess I can't. I just feel angry. 
DATA: That was my experience as well. I simply felt angry. 
LAFORGE: Well, let's say you're right and this is a real emotion. How
is that possible? 
DATA: I do not know. Perhaps I have evolved to the point where emotions
are within my grasp. Perhaps I will experience other emotions as time
goes by. 
LAFORGE: Well, I hope you're right. I'd hate to think that anger is all
you're capable of feeling. 

 Captain's log, stardate 46984.6. No additional
Borg attacks have been reported in the past two days. However,
Starfleet has dispatched Admiral Nechayev to take command in this
sector in preparation for a possible Borg invasion.

[Ready room]

(the Admiral is a petite blonde) 
NECHAYEV: There will be fifteen starships in this sector by the day
after tomorrow. The Gorkon will be my flagship. You'll take command of
task force three, consisting of the Enterprise, the Crazy Horse and the
Agamemnon. 
PICARD: Understood. 
NECHAYEV: Captain, I've read the report that you submitted to Admiral
Brooks last year regarding the Borg you called Hugh, and I've been
trying to figure out why you let him go. 
PICARD: I thought that I had made that clear. 
NECHAYEV: As I understand, it you found a single Borg at a crash site,
brought it aboard the Enterprise, studied it, analysed it, and
eventually found a way to send it back to the Borg with a programme
that would have destroyed the entire collective once and for all. But
instead, you nursed the Borg back to health, treated it like a guest,
gave it a name, and then sent it home. Why? 
PICARD: When Hugh was separated from the Borg collective he began to
grow and to evolve into something other than an automaton. He became a
person. When that happened, I felt I had no choice but to respect his
rights as an individual. 
NECHAYEV: Of course you had a choice. You could've taken the
opportunity to rid the Federation of a mortal enemy, one that has
killed tens of thousands of innocent people, and which may kill even
more. 
PICARD: No one is more aware of the danger than I am. But I am also
bound by my oath and my conscience to uphold certain principles. And I
will not sacrifice them in order to 
NECHAYEV: Your priority is to safeguard the lives of Federation
citizens, not to wrestle with your conscience. Now I want to make it
clear that if you have a similar opportunity in the future, an
opportunity to destroy the Borg, you are under orders to take advantage
of it. Is that understood? 
PICARD: Yes, sir.

[Troi's office]

DATA: For the past six hours, I have attempted to
produce an emotional response by subjecting myself to various stimuli. 
TROI: Like what? 
DATA: I listened to several operas known to be uplifting, I watched
three holodeck programs designed to be
humourous, and I made four attempts to induce sexual desire by
subjecting myself to erotic imagery. 
TROI: What happened? 
DATA: Nothing. 
TROI: I'm curious. Why are you ignoring the one emotion you've already
experienced? Why aren't you trying to make yourself angry again? 
DATA: Anger is a negative emotion. I wanted to concentrate on something
more positive. 
TROI: Data, feelings aren't positive and negative, they simply exist.
It's what we do with those feelings that becomes good or bad. For
example, feeling angry about an injustice could lead someone to take a
positive action to correct it. 
DATA: But my study of humanity indicates there are some emotions that
are harmful, such as jealousy or hatred. 
TROI: Those are very strong emotions, and you're right, very little
good can come from them. But I don't think that an exploration of anger
need necessarily lead to hatred or malice. 
DATA: But what if it does, Counsellor? What if it turns out that those
are the only emotions I am capable of experiencing? Would that not make
me a bad person? 
TROI: We've served together for a long time and I think I've come to
know you pretty well. I have to believe if you ever reach your goal of
becoming human, you won't become a bad one. 
DATA: I wish I were as confident as you, Counsellor. When I was
fighting the Borg, I felt angry, but when I think back on the incident,
I realise that I was also experiencing another sensation. It was not
the same as anger, but I think it was an emotion. 
TROI: When exactly did you feel this other emotion? 
DATA: It was just after I had killed the Borg. I looked down at his
body. I felt something. 
TROI: If you had to give this feeling a name, what would you call it? 
DATA: I believe it was pleasure.

