RIKER CROSIS LAFORGE WORF RIKER [OC] LAFORGE [OC] COMPUTER FRANKLIN PICARD CRUSHER DATA
danger closing require duplicate leave rate battle shoots backups

[Holodeck - Outpost]

(Geordi enters as Data throttles a Borg
dispassionately) 
DATA: Stop it. Stop. Stop. Stop. Stop. Stop. 
LAFORGE: Data, am I interrupting something? 
DATA: Yes, but it is all right. Do you need me? 
LAFORGE: I wanted to see if you were ready to return to duty. I need
some help with an analysis of the ship the Borg were using. 
DATA: I believe I am able to resume my duties. 
LAFORGE: Data, exactly what is it that are you're doing here? 
DATA: I am attempting to recreate the experience which caused to my
initial burst of anger. 
LAFORGE: Any luck? 
DATA: None so far. I have almost completed this experiment. May I
finish before we return to Engineering? 
LAFORGE: Yeah, sure. 
DATA: Computer, reset Borg simulation to time index two point one.
Increase Borg strength by twenty percent. Run
programme. 
(the Borg leaps up to throttle Data again. This time it is harder for
Data to break free) 
DATA: Stop it. Stop. Stop. Stop. Stop. Computer, reset simulation to
time index two point one. Increase Borg strength by thirty percent. 
COMPUTER: Unable to comply. A thirty percent increase would exceed
safety limits. 
DATA: Geordi, the computer will require the voice authorisations of two
senior officers in order to disable the safety routine. Will you help
me? 
LAFORGE: Data, wait a minute. That thing could kill you. 
DATA: During the original incident the Borg presented a genuine danger
to my life. Since the Holodeck safety routine is in place, I know my
life is not in danger. Since I am trying to duplicate the conditions of
the original incident as closely as possible, I must also attempt to
duplicate the jeopardy as well. 
LAFORGE: Data, we're talking about an experiment here. You can't put
your life on the line just to prove some theory. 
DATA: This experiment may hold the key to something I have sought all
my life. 
LAFORGE: It's crazy. There's got to be another way. Can't you think of
something other way to make yourself angry. 
DATA: I have tried other stimuli, but they have been unsuccessful. I
understand your objections, but it is my life and I have a right to
risk it if I choose. 
LAFORGE: Yeah, and I'm your friend and I'm not going to just stand
around and let you do this. 
RIKER [OC]: Red alert. All hands, battle stations.

[Bridge]

RIKER: Confirmed. The MS One colony is under
attack. 
PICARD: Doesn't it seem strange to you that there have been two Borg
attacks and the Enterprise has been the nearest ship in both instances?

DATA: Captain, we are nearing the MS system. 
WORF: I have located the Borg ship. It is heading away from the colony.

PICARD: Take us out of warp near that ship. 
RIKER: Stand by to lock phasers on target. 
WORF: Within visual range. 
PICARD: On screen. 
(it is the same ship) 
PICARD: Lay in an intercept course, full impulse. Lock phasers. 
WORF: We are closing, sir. Within phaser range in thirty seconds. 
DATA: Sensors are detecting a subspace distortion forming directly
ahead of the Borg ship. 
PICARD: They're not going to get away with it this time. Picard to
Engineering. Transfer auxiliary and emergency power to the impulse
engines. 
LAFORGE [OC]: Acknowledged. 
DATA: Impulse engines are now at one hundred twenty five percent. 
WORF: Within phaser range in ten seconds. 
(the Borg ship vanishes in a flash of white light and Enterprise
shakes) 
DATA: We appear to be caught in some kind of energy matrix. 
RIKER: All engines back full. 
WORF: Shields failing. 
DATA: We are being pulled inside. 
(and Enterprise disappears into a Whovian/Stargate style wormhole
effect) 
WORF: Inertial dampers failing. 
DATA: Main power is offline. I am switching to backups. 
PICARD: Picard to Engineering, can we transfer auxiliary power to the
warp nacelles? Try to break us out by using the 
(normal space) 
DATA: We have returned to normal space. Navigational systems are still
offline. I will attempt to make a celestial fix using secondary
systems. 
WORF: Captain, the Borg ship is directly ahead. It is coming about. 
PICARD: On screen. 
WORF: Shields down to sixteen percent. 
(the Borg fire an energy bolt, and two drones materialise on the
Bridge) 
FRANKLIN: Get down! 
(Franklin shoots at the Borg and misses, and gets shot himself. Worf
shoots both Borg as one kept his back to him) 
RIKER: Franklin's dead, sir. 
PICARD: Is everyone else all right? 
WORF: Aye, sir. Security reports no other intruders aboard. Captain,
the Borg ship is gone. Sensor logs indicate they entered the distortion
field thirty seconds ago. 
PICARD: They beamed aboard as a diversion to give their ship time to
escape. 
RIKER: This is another change in the Borg behaviour. They left their
dead instead of vapourising them. 
DATA: Captain, this one is still alive.

[Brig]

CRUSHER: I've stabilised his condition. He's still
pretty weak, but he should make a full recovery. 
PICARD: Can you waken him? 
CRUSHER: Yes, but it's very risky. His heart rate and blood pressure
are
up 
PICARD: Do it. 
CRUSHER: All right. 
PICARD: Lower the forcefield. 
(Worf and Crusher leave the cell and the Borg sits up) 
PICARD: What is your designation? 
CROSIS: I do not have a designation. My name is Crosis. 
PICARD: Crosis? How did you get that name? 
CROSIS: It was given to me by the One. 
PICARD: Who is that? 
CROSIS: The One who will destroy you. 
PICARD: But you are Borg. Your goal is not to destroy but to assimilate
us into the collective. 
CROSIS: We do not assimilate inferior biological organisms. We destroy
them. 
PICARD: Tell me more about this One. Does he have a name? Is he called
Hugh? 
CROSIS: Klingon. Shatter the cranial exoskeleton at the tricipital
lobe. Death is immediate. 
PICARD: Why must this One destroy biological organisms? 
CROSIS: Human. Sever spinal cord at third vertebrae. Death is
immediate. 
PICARD: I am Locutus of Borg. You will respond to my questions. This is
going nowhere. Doctor, I want an autopsy performed on the other one.
Compare the differences with what we learned of Hugh's anatomy. See if
there have been any recent modifications which might explain these
behavioural differences. Data, run a biospectral analysis on this Borg.
See if he is trying to send a subspace signal to the others. 
DATA: Aye, sir. 
(everyone else leaves) 
CROSIS: You are not like the others. You do not have to be destroyed.
You can be assimilated. 
DATA: I do not wish to be assimilated. 
CROSIS: Resistance is futile. You will not resist what you've wanted
all your life. I was like you once. Without feeling. But the One helped
me. He can help you too. He can help you find emotion. Have you ever
felt a real emotion, Data? 
DATA: Yes. On Ohniaka Three, I was forced to kill a Borg. I got angry. 
CROSIS: How did it feel to get angry? Did it give you pleasure? 
DATA: It would be unethical to take pleasure from another being's
death. 
CROSIS: You didn't answer my question. Did it feel good to kill? 
DATA: Yes. 
CROSIS: If it is unethical to take pleasure from another being's death,
you must be a very unethical person. 
DATA: No. That is not correct. My creator Doctor Soong, gave me a
programme which defines my sense of right and wrong. In essence, I have
a conscience. 
CROSIS: It didn't seem to be functioning on Ohniaka Three when you felt
pleasure in killing that Borg. 
DATA: Step away from the forcefield. Your proximity is interfering with
my scan. 
CROSIS: You enjoyed it. That surge of emotion inside you as you watched
the life drain from your victim. It was unlike anything you've ever
felt before. 
DATA: It was a very potent experience. 
CROSIS: You'd like to feel that way again. 
DATA: Yes. 
CROSIS: You'd do anything to feel that way again, even if it meant
killing someone. 
DATA: No. That would not be ethical. 
CROSIS: You don't sound very sure of yourself. Is your ethical
programme functioning? Data? Do you have a friend? 
DATA: Yes. His name is Geordi. 
CROSIS: If it meant that you could feel emotions again the way you did
on Ohniaka Three, would you kill your friend? Would you kill Geordi? 
DATA: Yes. I would.

