RIKER LAFORGE WORF PICARD HUGH COMPUTER CRUSHER DATA

[Bridge]

RIKER: Red alert! All hands to battle stations. Lay
in a course. Engage warp nine. 
(Picard enters) 
RIKER: We received a distress call from the New Berlin Colony. They're
under attack. 
PICARD: What's our ETA? 
WORF: At warp nine, fifteen minutes, thirty seconds. 
PICARD: Contact the Crazy Horse and the Agamemnon. Have them standing
by in case we need them. 
WORF: Captain, incoming message from the New Berlin Colony. They have
cancelled their distress call. Evidently a Ferengi trading ship entered
their system and someone panicked. 
RIKER: Third time today. Stand down Red alert. Reduce speed. Return to
our patrol route. 
PICARD: Mister Worf, acknowledge the signal from New Berlin and
transmit another copy of Starfleet's ship-recognition protocols and
tell them to read it this time. 
WORF: Aye, sir.

Captain's log, supplemental. We have been on patrol
for sixteen hours, and there are no reports of further Borg activity.
But tensions continue to run high on the colonies and outposts in this
sector.

[Ready room]

(Picard is reviewing a record from 45855.4 - 07 18
51.4 onwards)
HUGH [on monitor]: Do I have a name? 
CRUSHER [OC]: I'm Beverly, he's Geordi, and you, you 
LAFORGE [OC]: No, wait a minute. That's it. Hugh. 
HUGH [on monitor]: We are Hugh. 
(doorbell) 
PICARD: Come. 
RIKER: I thought you might like to see this. Geordi's analysis of the
subspace distortion the Borg used to escape. 
PICARD: An artificially created energy conduit? That could be anything.

RIKER: We don't have enough information at this point 
PICARD: I don't want excuses, Number One. I want answers! I'm sorry. He
was in this room, Will. I could have rid the Federation of a mortal
threat, and I let him go. 
RIKER: Sending Hugh back to the Borg was a very risky, a very dangerous
choice, but it was the moral thing to do. 
PICARD: It may turn out that the moral thing to do was not the right
thing to do.

[Holodeck - Outpost]

(Geordi enters as Data throttles a Borg
dispassionately) 
DATA: Stop it. Stop. Stop. Stop. Stop. Stop. 
LAFORGE: Data, am I interrupting something? 
DATA: Yes, but it is all right. Do you need me? 
LAFORGE: I wanted to see if you were ready to return to duty. I need
some help with an analysis of the ship the Borg were using. 
DATA: I believe I am able to resume my duties. 
LAFORGE: Data, exactly what is it that are you're doing here? 
DATA: I am attempting to recreate the experience which caused to my
initial burst of anger. 
LAFORGE: Any luck? 
DATA: None so far. I have almost completed this experiment. May I
finish before we return to Engineering? 
LAFORGE: Yeah, sure. 
DATA: Computer, reset Borg simulation to time index two point one.
Increase Borg strength by twenty percent. Run
programme. 
(the Borg leaps up to throttle Data again. This time it is harder for
Data to break free) 
DATA: Stop it. Stop. Stop. Stop. Stop. Computer, reset simulation to
time index two point one. Increase Borg strength by thirty percent. 
COMPUTER: Unable to comply. A thirty percent increase would exceed
safety limits. 
DATA: Geordi, the computer will require the voice authorisations of two
senior officers in order to disable the safety routine. Will you help
me? 
LAFORGE: Data, wait a minute. That thing could kill you. 
DATA: During the original incident the Borg presented a genuine danger
to my life. Since the Holodeck safety routine is in place, I know my
life is not in danger. Since I am trying to duplicate the conditions of
the original incident as closely as possible, I must also attempt to
duplicate the jeopardy as well. 
LAFORGE: Data, we're talking about an experiment here. You can't put
your life on the line just to prove some theory. 
DATA: This experiment may hold the key to something I have sought all
my life. 
LAFORGE: It's crazy. There's got to be another way. Can't you think of
something other way to make yourself angry. 
DATA: I have tried other stimuli, but they have been unsuccessful. I
understand your objections, but it is my life and I have a right to
risk it if I choose. 
LAFORGE: Yeah, and I'm your friend and I'm not going to just stand
around and let you do this. 
RIKER [OC]: Red alert. All hands, battle stations.

