RIKER CROSIS LAFORGE WORF PICARD ENSIGN CRUSHER DATA
bridge return help differences current pressure systems team armed

[Brig]

CRUSHER: I've stabilised his condition. He's still
pretty weak, but he should make a full recovery. 
PICARD: Can you waken him? 
CRUSHER: Yes, but it's very risky. His heart rate and blood pressure
are
up 
PICARD: Do it. 
CRUSHER: All right. 
PICARD: Lower the forcefield. 
(Worf and Crusher leave the cell and the Borg sits up) 
PICARD: What is your designation? 
CROSIS: I do not have a designation. My name is Crosis. 
PICARD: Crosis? How did you get that name? 
CROSIS: It was given to me by the One. 
PICARD: Who is that? 
CROSIS: The One who will destroy you. 
PICARD: But you are Borg. Your goal is not to destroy but to assimilate
us into the collective. 
CROSIS: We do not assimilate inferior biological organisms. We destroy
them. 
PICARD: Tell me more about this One. Does he have a name? Is he called
Hugh? 
CROSIS: Klingon. Shatter the cranial exoskeleton at the tricipital
lobe. Death is immediate. 
PICARD: Why must this One destroy biological organisms? 
CROSIS: Human. Sever spinal cord at third vertebrae. Death is
immediate. 
PICARD: I am Locutus of Borg. You will respond to my questions. This is
going nowhere. Doctor, I want an autopsy performed on the other one.
Compare the differences with what we learned of Hugh's anatomy. See if
there have been any recent modifications which might explain these
behavioural differences. Data, run a biospectral analysis on this Borg.
See if he is trying to send a subspace signal to the others. 
DATA: Aye, sir. 
(everyone else leaves) 
CROSIS: You are not like the others. You do not have to be destroyed.
You can be assimilated. 
DATA: I do not wish to be assimilated. 
CROSIS: Resistance is futile. You will not resist what you've wanted
all your life. I was like you once. Without feeling. But the One helped
me. He can help you too. He can help you find emotion. Have you ever
felt a real emotion, Data? 
DATA: Yes. On Ohniaka Three, I was forced to kill a Borg. I got angry. 
CROSIS: How did it feel to get angry? Did it give you pleasure? 
DATA: It would be unethical to take pleasure from another being's
death. 
CROSIS: You didn't answer my question. Did it feel good to kill? 
DATA: Yes. 
CROSIS: If it is unethical to take pleasure from another being's death,
you must be a very unethical person. 
DATA: No. That is not correct. My creator Doctor Soong, gave me a
programme which defines my sense of right and wrong. In essence, I have
a conscience. 
CROSIS: It didn't seem to be functioning on Ohniaka Three when you felt
pleasure in killing that Borg. 
DATA: Step away from the forcefield. Your proximity is interfering with
my scan. 
CROSIS: You enjoyed it. That surge of emotion inside you as you watched
the life drain from your victim. It was unlike anything you've ever
felt before. 
DATA: It was a very potent experience. 
CROSIS: You'd like to feel that way again. 
DATA: Yes. 
CROSIS: You'd do anything to feel that way again, even if it meant
killing someone. 
DATA: No. That would not be ethical. 
CROSIS: You don't sound very sure of yourself. Is your ethical
programme functioning? Data? Do you have a friend? 
DATA: Yes. His name is Geordi. 
CROSIS: If it meant that you could feel emotions again the way you did
on Ohniaka Three, would you kill your friend? Would you kill Geordi? 
DATA: Yes. I would.

[Bridge]

(at the science station) 
LAFORGE: Our current theory is that the Borg have established several
transwarp conduits through subspace. A ship, when entering the conduit,
is immediately accelerated to an extremely high warp velocity. It's
like falling into a fast moving river and being swept away by the
current. 
PICARD: How fast would a ship travel through one of these conduits? 
LAFORGE: We don't know. Normal subspace limitations don't apply to
transwarp variables. But I'd say based on the distance we covered
during our trip through the conduit, the speed would have to be at
least twenty times faster than our maximum warp. 
RIKER: How do they open the conduits? 
LAFORGE: The Borg ship emitted some kind of high energy tachyon pulse
just before we saw the subspace distortion. It seems as though the
conduits are keyed to respond to tachyon transmissions of a specific
frequency. 
PICARD: Is there any way for us to duplicate 
WORF: Captain, a shuttlecraft has left bay two. 
PICARD: Who authorised a launch? 
WORF: There was no authorisation. 
PICARD: Picard to shuttlecraft. Identify yourself and return to the
ship immediately. Mister Worf, lock on with a tractor beam and return
it to the ship. 
WORF: Aye, sir. The tractor beam has been disabled. Command override is
not functioning. 
LAFORGE: Captain, I'm picking up a tachyon surge. Looks like whoever's
in the shuttle is trying to trigger the transwarp conduit. 
RIKER: Can we know who's on board? 
WORF: It is the Borg prisoner, and Commander Data. 
(a flash on the viewscreen) 
PICARD: Mister La Forge, can we follow them into the conduit? 
LAFORGE: We've got a pretty good reading of the tachyon pulse they
sent. We might be able to duplicate it. 
PICARD: The question is, is Data a prisoner or did he go willingly? 
WORF: The command overrides used to disable the tractor were Commander
Data's. 
RIKER: The Borg could have downloaded the codes from Data's positronic
net. 
PICARD: Perhaps Data's recent flash of emotion has something to do with
this. It could have affected him more profoundly than we realise.
Either way, we have to find him. 
LAFORGE: I've set up a temporary tachyon matrix in the main deflector.
I think I can use it to simulate the pulse sent by the shuttle. 
PICARD: Mister Worf, red alert. 
RIKER: All hands, battle stations. 
PICARD: Bring us to the last known coordinates of the shuttlecraft. 
WORF: Shields up. Weapons ready. 
PICARD: Mister La Forge? 
LAFORGE: Energising the matrix. Emitting tachyons in the lower
bandwidth. 
WORF: Sensors show no unusual subspace activity. 
LAFORGE: All right. Switching to the secondary bandwidth. Nothing.
Maybe if I try alternating the frequencies. 
WORF: Captain, there is an energy fluctuation directly ahead of us. It
is the subspace distortion. 
PICARD: Take us in, Ensign. One half impulse. 
(in they go, shake rattle and roll)
WORF: Power levels are down to sixty seven percent. 
LAFORGE: Compensating with auxiliary power. 
(all calm again) 
PICARD: Report. 
RIKER: Navigational sensors show that we've travelled sixty five light
years from our previous position. 
PICARD: Can you locate the shuttle? 
WORF: No, sir. There is no indication of the shuttle within range of
our sensors. 
RIKER: Maybe we can find an energy signature from their engines. 
LAFORGE: Captain. 
PICARD: Yes, Mister La Forge. 
LAFORGE: I've scanned three different star systems within sensor range.
There is evidence of at least two advanced civilisations but I'm
reading no life signs. But there are indications that plasma weapons
have been fired in those systems recently. 
PICARD: The Borg have been busy. 
RIKER: I think we've found the shuttle's energy signature. 
WORF: They were heading two four seven, mark zero five nine. 
PICARD: Lay in that course, Ensign, and engage at full impulse. 
ENSIGN: Aye, sir. 
(in orbit of a mottled planet) 
RIKER: We've traced the shuttle's energy signature to this point on the
surface but there's too much interference to scan the location. 
PICARD: Are they intentionally jamming our sensors? 
LAFORGE: It looks more like a natural phenomenon. There's an unusually
high amount of EM interference in the planet's magnetosphere. 
PICARD: Can we transport through the interference? 
LAFORGE: We could, but there could be fifty Borg down there waiting for
us and we'd never even know it.
RIKER: I think we have to take the risk. 
PICARD: Agreed. Take a well-armed away team and transport down to those
coordinates. Have the transporter Chief keep a permanent lock on your
signals so we can get you out of there at the first sign of trouble. 
RIKER: Aye, sir. Mister Worf, you're with me.

[Planet surface]

(near the shuttlecraft El-Baz, in a very gold-brown
tint) 
RIKER: Riker to Enterprise. We're on the surface. There's no sign of
any Borg, or Data. The shuttle appears to be abandoned. 
WORF: The EM interference is limiting the tricorder range. It is
useless beyond one hundred metres. 
RIKER: There are

