PICARD RIKER ENSIGN WORF DATA

[Bridge]

RIKER: We've received a distress call from the
Ohniaka Three Outpost. They said they were under attack. 
PICARD: Ohniaka Three? There's no strategic value to that outpost. Were
they able to identify the attackers? 
RIKER: No, we haven't been able to raise them since the initial
contact. 
WORF: We are nearing the Ohniaka system, sir. 
PICARD: Bring us out of warp, Ensign. 
ENSIGN: Aye, sir. 
WORF: Sensors detect one ship orbiting the third planet. Its
configuration does not match anything in our records. 
RIKER: Stand by phasers and photon torpedoes. 
PICARD: Hail them, Mister Worf. 
WORF: No response, sir. 
PICARD: Put them on screen. 
DATA: It does not appear to be attacking the outpost, sir. 
RIKER: They might have attacked before we got here. 
PICARD: Or they might simply be another victim. What about the outpost?

DATA: There is a great deal of electromagnetic interference. I am
unable to determine whether there are any lifeforms present. 
RIKER: Worf, Data, you're with me.

[Outpost]

(Worf, Data, Riker and a female security officer
arrive to find the crew of the outpost are slumped over their consoles)

WORF: These wounds were caused by a forced plasma beam, similar to a
Ferengi hand phaser. 
RIKER: This seems brutal even for the Ferengi. Any sign of survivors? 
DATA: Electromagnetic interference is still making it difficult to get
a precise reading. 
RIKER: How many people were assigned to this outpost? 
WORF: Two hundred and seventy four. 
RIKER: All right. we're going to need to do a room to room search.
Worf, you and Corelki start searching the north wing. You and I will
take the south. 
WORF: Aye, sir. 
(Data tries to open a door) 
DATA: The mechanism appears to be jammed, sir. 
RIKER: There's not much damage. It doesn't look like they were
interested in the station, just the people. 
DATA: I have bypassed the primary system. 
(the door opens to reveal - a Borg! after the titles the shooting
starts. Data takes out the first Borg and at least three more turn up,
pinning down our heroes)

