RIKER LAFORGE WORF PICARD LAFORGE [OC] COMPUTER FRANKLIN CRUSHER [OC] RIKER [OC] DATA HUGH [on monitor]
45855 danger located duplicate systems way objections hold shoots

[Ready room]

(Picard is reviewing a record from 45855.4 - 07 18
51.4 onwards)
HUGH [on monitor]: Do I have a name? 
CRUSHER [OC]: I'm Beverly, he's Geordi, and you, you 
LAFORGE [OC]: No, wait a minute. That's it. Hugh. 
HUGH [on monitor]: We are Hugh. 
(doorbell) 
PICARD: Come. 
RIKER: I thought you might like to see this. Geordi's analysis of the
subspace distortion the Borg used to escape. 
PICARD: An artificially created energy conduit? That could be anything.

RIKER: We don't have enough information at this point 
PICARD: I don't want excuses, Number One. I want answers! I'm sorry. He
was in this room, Will. I could have rid the Federation of a mortal
threat, and I let him go. 
RIKER: Sending Hugh back to the Borg was a very risky, a very dangerous
choice, but it was the moral thing to do. 
PICARD: It may turn out that the moral thing to do was not the right
thing to do.

[Holodeck - Outpost]

(Geordi enters as Data throttles a Borg
dispassionately) 
DATA: Stop it. Stop. Stop. Stop. Stop. Stop. 
LAFORGE: Data, am I interrupting something? 
DATA: Yes, but it is all right. Do you need me? 
LAFORGE: I wanted to see if you were ready to return to duty. I need
some help with an analysis of the ship the Borg were using. 
DATA: I believe I am able to resume my duties. 
LAFORGE: Data, exactly what is it that are you're doing here? 
DATA: I am attempting to recreate the experience which caused to my
initial burst of anger. 
LAFORGE: Any luck? 
DATA: None so far. I have almost completed this experiment. May I
finish before we return to Engineering? 
LAFORGE: Yeah, sure. 
DATA: Computer, reset Borg simulation to time index two point one.
Increase Borg strength by twenty percent. Run
programme. 
(the Borg leaps up to throttle Data again. This time it is harder for
Data to break free) 
DATA: Stop it. Stop. Stop. Stop. Stop. Computer, reset simulation to
time index two point one. Increase Borg strength by thirty percent. 
COMPUTER: Unable to comply. A thirty percent increase would exceed
safety limits. 
DATA: Geordi, the computer will require the voice authorisations of two
senior officers in order to disable the safety routine. Will you help
me? 
LAFORGE: Data, wait a minute. That thing could kill you. 
DATA: During the original incident the Borg presented a genuine danger
to my life. Since the Holodeck safety routine is in place, I know my
life is not in danger. Since I am trying to duplicate the conditions of
the original incident as closely as possible, I must also attempt to
duplicate the jeopardy as well. 
LAFORGE: Data, we're talking about an experiment here. You can't put
your life on the line just to prove some theory. 
DATA: This experiment may hold the key to something I have sought all
my life. 
LAFORGE: It's crazy. There's got to be another way. Can't you think of
something other way to make yourself angry. 
DATA: I have tried other stimuli, but they have been unsuccessful. I
understand your objections, but it is my life and I have a right to
risk it if I choose. 
LAFORGE: Yeah, and I'm your friend and I'm not going to just stand
around and let you do this. 
RIKER [OC]: Red alert. All hands, battle stations.

[Bridge]

RIKER: Confirmed. The MS One colony is under
attack. 
PICARD: Doesn't it seem strange to you that there have been two Borg
attacks and the Enterprise has been the nearest ship in both instances?

DATA: Captain, we are nearing the MS system. 
WORF: I have located the Borg ship. It is heading away from the colony.

PICARD: Take us out of warp near that ship. 
RIKER: Stand by to lock phasers on target. 
WORF: Within visual range. 
PICARD: On screen. 
(it is the same ship) 
PICARD: Lay in an intercept course, full impulse. Lock phasers. 
WORF: We are closing, sir. Within phaser range in thirty seconds. 
DATA: Sensors are detecting a subspace distortion forming directly
ahead of the Borg ship. 
PICARD: They're not going to get away with it this time. Picard to
Engineering. Transfer auxiliary and emergency power to the impulse
engines. 
LAFORGE [OC]: Acknowledged. 
DATA: Impulse engines are now at one hundred twenty five percent. 
WORF: Within phaser range in ten seconds. 
(the Borg ship vanishes in a flash of white light and Enterprise
shakes) 
DATA: We appear to be caught in some kind of energy matrix. 
RIKER: All engines back full. 
WORF: Shields failing. 
DATA: We are being pulled inside. 
(and Enterprise disappears into a Whovian/Stargate style wormhole
effect) 
WORF: Inertial dampers failing. 
DATA: Main power is offline. I am switching to backups. 
PICARD: Picard to Engineering, can we transfer auxiliary power to the
warp nacelles? Try to break us out by using the 
(normal space) 
DATA: We have returned to normal space. Navigational systems are still
offline. I will attempt to make a celestial fix using secondary
systems. 
WORF: Captain, the Borg ship is directly ahead. It is coming about. 
PICARD: On screen. 
WORF: Shields down to sixteen percent. 
(the Borg fire an energy bolt, and two drones materialise on the
Bridge) 
FRANKLIN: Get down! 
(Franklin shoots at the Borg and misses, and gets shot himself. Worf
shoots both Borg as one kept his back to him) 
RIKER: Franklin's dead, sir. 
PICARD: Is everyone else all right? 
WORF: Aye, sir. Security reports no other intruders aboard. Captain,
the Borg ship is gone. Sensor logs indicate they entered the distortion
field thirty seconds ago. 
PICARD: They beamed aboard as a diversion to give their ship time to
escape. 
RIKER: This is another change in the Borg behaviour. They left their
dead instead of vapourising them. 
DATA: Captain, this one is still alive.

