TROI CROSIS LAFORGE WORF PICARD HUGH RIKER GOVAL LORE DATA

[Borg hall]

LORE: (to Borg) Now, thank you. There you are,
brother. 
DATA: Here is the visor. May I ask why you wanted it? 
LORE: I thought it might look good on me. What do you think? Maybe we
should work on your sense of humour, brother. Actually, I was thinking
La Forge's implants might make him an ideal test subject for my
experiment. 
DATA: All the Borg you have experimented on so far have suffered
extensive brain damage. 
LORE: Using the humans to perfect the procedure will allow us to
prevent any further Borg deaths. 
DATA: I understand. 
LORE: Good. What is it? 
CROSIS: This Borg disconnected himself from the others. He would not
let me hear his thoughts. 
LORE: I've asked you to stay linked to Crosis at all times. You know
that, don't you? 
GOVAL: Yes. 
LORE: I know this must be difficult for you. I know how uncertain you
must feel. All of these sensations are new and they can be frightening.
Isn't that right? 
GOVAL: Yes. I have doubts. 
LORE: Of course you do. It's only natural. No one is going to blame you
for that. But in order to lose those doubts, to keep you from fear and
confusion away, I need you to remain linked with the others so that
their strength and their confidence can help you. I need you, Goval. I
need you to help me build a future for the Borg. I can't do it without
you. Will you help me? 
GOVAL: Yes. I will. 
[Holding cell]

LAFORGE: Lore must have told Data to take my visor
because he realised I could see a carrier wave that was radiating from
him. 
PICARD: A carrier wave? Is that how he's manipulating Data? 
LAFORGE: I think what's happening is that Lore is tapping into the chip
he stole from Doctor Soong and somehow he's found a way to transmit
part of that emotional programme to Data. 
TROI: But the only emotions Data seems to feel are negative. 
LAFORGE: Yeah, I'm sure that's intentional. But in order for Data to be
affected by those emotions, Lore would have had to disable his ethical
programme first. 
PICARD: Can we reactivate it? 
LAFORGE: If I can generate a phased kedion pulse at the right
frequency, that would trigger Data's subsystems and reboot the
programme. 
PICARD: And although Lore would still be feeding him negative emotions,
at least Data might listen to us. 
LAFORGE: Right. 
TROI: I think it's worth a try. 
LAFORGE: So, got any ideas on how we generate a kedion pulse? 
(Data enters and hauls Geordi to his feet) 
PICARD: Data, where are you taking him? 
DATA: That is not your concern. 
PICARD: Data, wait. Let us talk to you. 
[Planet surface]

(Worf and Riker hide from a Borg patrol, then come
over a ridge.) 
WORF: Commander. 
(it's the building, and they're surrounded by Borg)

[Caverns]

RIKER: Hugh? 
HUGH: Why are you here, Commander Riker? Hasn't the crew of the
Enterprise caused enough damage already? 
(a little later) 
WORF: So you blame us for what has happened to the Borg? 
HUGH: You gave me a sense of individuality, changed me, then sent me
back to the Collective. You must have known that change would be passed
on to others. 
RIKER: We considered it. We knew it was a possibility. 
HUGH: Then you made it possible for Lore to dominate us. 
WORF: I cannot accept that. Lore is only one. The Borg could have
stopped him. 
HUGH: You don't know the condition we were in when he found us. Before
my experience on the Enterprise, the Borg were a single-minded
Collective. The voices in our heads were smooth and flowing. But after
I returned, those voices began to change. They became uneven,
discordant. For the first time, individual Borg had differing ideas
about how to proceed. We couldn't function. Some Borg fought each
other. Others simply shut themselves down. Many starved to death. 
RIKER: And then Lore came along. 
HUGH: You probably can't imagine what it is like to be so lost and
frightened that you will listen to any voice which promises change. 
WORF: Even if that voice insists on controlling you. 
HUGH: That's what we wanted. Someone to show us the way out of
confusion. Lore promised clarity and purpose. In the beginning, he
seemed like a saviour. The promise of becoming a superior race, of
becoming fully artificial was
compelling. We gladly did everything he asked of us. But after a while,
it became clear that Lore had no idea how to keep his promise. That's
when he began talking about the need for us to make sacrifices. Before
we realised it, this was the result. 
RIKER: What happened to them? 
HUGH: Lore began to experiment, trying to re-make us in his image. This
is the result of my encounter with the Enterprise, Commander. So you
can see I don't particularly welcome your presence here. 
RIKER: I'm sorry you feel that way. We just came to get our people. We
won't cause you any more trouble. 
HUGH: Tell me about my friend. 
RIKER: Friend? 
HUGH: The human called Geordi. 
RIKER: I wish I could tell you about him. We think he may be held
inside the compound. 
HUGH: I cannot help you. I cannot risk our being discovered. 
RIKER: Can you at least show us a way into the compound? 
HUGH: These caverns lead to tunnels which run beneath the compound.
Some of them connect with the environmental control ducts. 
WORF: Show us. If we can determine the geography of the compound, we
can form a rescue plan.

[Lore's lab]

(Geordi is strapped down on a metal frame that's
raising) 
LAFORGE: Data? Who's there? 
DATA: (as Picard) Geordi? 
LAFORGE: Captain. 
DATA: Shh. We're getting out of here. 
LAFORGE: Come on, hurry. Data was just here. I think he went to get
something. 
DATA: (as himself) Too late. My brother suggested that I try to develop
my sense of humour. What do you think? 
LAFORGE: I think it needs a little work. 
(Data aims an instrument at Geordi's visor inputs) 
LAFORGE: What's happening? 
DATA: I'm attemptin to neutralise your pain receptors. 
LAFORGE: What are you going to do to me? 
(Data is injecting something into Geordi's forehead) 
DATA: I am implanting nano-cortical fibres in your cerebrum. They are
designed to learn and mimic your neural firing patterns. Once they are
in place, I will destroy the existing brain cells. We'll see if the
artificial neural network is able to take over your cognitive
functions. 
LAFORGE: Data, listen. Lore is controlling you. He's transmitting a
carrier wave which is affecting your positronic matrix. 
DATA: If the procedure is successful, your cognitive processing
functions will be considerably improved. 
LAFORGE: Don't you care that he's manipulating you? 
DATA: However, there is a sixty percent chance you will not survive the
procedure. 
LAFORGE: I don't care much for those odds. 
(more injections) 
DATA: They are cause for concern. However, I still have Counsellor Troi
and Captain Picard. The odds are that at least one of the procedures
will be successful.

[Holding cell]

TROI: Help me! 
(a Borg comes to see Picard lying on the floor) 
TROI: He tried to escape. The force field sent him into neural shock.
If he dies, Lore will blame you. 
(the innocent Borg takes down the force field and enters. He leans over
Picard and gets one of his tubes pulled out, rendering him unconscious)

PICARD: See if the corridor is empty. 
(but Data is bringing Geordi back) 
DATA: Drop it or I will break his neck. 
(Troi drops the Borg hand weapon and helps guide Geordi into the cell) 
DATA: Take him. 
(Borg remove their fallen comrade) 
PICARD: What have you done to him? 
DATA: I will be back for him later. 
(Data leaves) 
TROI: Geordi, are you in pain? 
LAFORGE: No. I'm just a little dizzy. 
PICARD: I was able to take part of a transceiver from the guard's
interlink system. I think that it uses some kind of phased-pulse
technology. Do you think it could be modified to generate a kedion
pulse that would reboot Data's
programme? 
LAFORGE: Yeah, yeah, it's possible. See if you can locate the phase
modulation circuitry. 
TROI: I'll watch the door. 
PICARD: All right, I think I've found it. 
LAFORGE: Okay, good. Now, do you see anything that we might be able to
use as a flux inhibitor? 
