RIKER CROSIS LAFORGE WORF BARNABY PICARD TROI LORE GOVAL TAITT SALAZAR HELM CRUSHER DATA

[Bridge]

(relief crew enter the Bridge) 
TAITT: Sir, we've reached the coordinates of the conduit. The tachyon
matrix is energised and ready to go. And Lieutenant Barnaby has
returned from the surface. He'll be relieving me. 
CRUSHER: Right. Stand by to trigger the conduit. Taitt. I want you to
stay on the Bridge. I'll need a Science Officer at the aft station. 
TAITT: Yes, sir. 
CRUSHER: Helm, set a course to return to the planet. 
HELM: Aye, sir. 
CRUSHER: I'm not leaving those people stranded back there. An emergency
buoy can transmit a copy of our log entries to Starfleet just as easily
as we can. Ensign, prepare a buoy and launch it when ready. 
TAITT: Aye, sir. 
CRUSHER: Lieutenant, open the conduit. 
TAITT: Launching buoy now, sir. 
CRUSHER: Lieutenant, scan for any Borg ships between here and the
planet. 
BARNABY: Sensors detect no vessels. 
TAITT: We have to assume the ship that attacked us is still in orbit. 
CRUSHER: How long will we have before they can detect us and intercept?

TAITT: If their sensors function as well as ours it could be as little
as thirty seconds. 
CRUSHER: Crusher to Salazar. How long will it take to get the rest of
the crew off the surface? 
SALAZAR [OC]: One minute should do it. 
CRUSHER: We don't have one minute. How much can you shave off that? 
[Transporter room]

SALAZAR: If I can get a good lock on them quickly,
I might be able to do it in forty five or fifty seconds. 
[Bridge]

CRUSHER: We need to buy ourselves fifteen seconds.
Lieutenant, is there any way we can use the planet as a barrier to keep
the Borg from realising we're in orbit? 
BARNABY: We can enter orbit while they're on the far side of the
planet. And if we delay dropping out of warp until the last possible
instant, we could gain a few more seconds. 
TAITT: If your calculations are even slightly off, we'd hit the
atmosphere. 
BARNABY: I'll have to be sure my calculations are accurate, Ensign. 
CRUSHER: Let's do it. Helm, hard about. 
HELM: Aye, sir. 
[Planet surface]

WORF: Still no sign of the structure. 
RIKER: With all this interference it could be a hundred metres away and
we wouldn't know it. This could take hours. 
WORF: I am detecting a faint energy reading. 
RIKER: Residual thermal traces. Somebody stood here. 
WORF: The decay rate indicates it could be human. 
RIKER: They took this path.

[Borg hall]

LORE: (to Borg) Now, thank you. There you are,
brother. 
DATA: Here is the visor. May I ask why you wanted it? 
LORE: I thought it might look good on me. What do you think? Maybe we
should work on your sense of humour, brother. Actually, I was thinking
La Forge's implants might make him an ideal test subject for my
experiment. 
DATA: All the Borg you have experimented on so far have suffered
extensive brain damage. 
LORE: Using the humans to perfect the procedure will allow us to
prevent any further Borg deaths. 
DATA: I understand. 
LORE: Good. What is it? 
CROSIS: This Borg disconnected himself from the others. He would not
let me hear his thoughts. 
LORE: I've asked you to stay linked to Crosis at all times. You know
that, don't you? 
GOVAL: Yes. 
LORE: I know this must be difficult for you. I know how uncertain you
must feel. All of these sensations are new and they can be frightening.
Isn't that right? 
GOVAL: Yes. I have doubts. 
LORE: Of course you do. It's only natural. No one is going to blame you
for that. But in order to lose those doubts, to keep you from fear and
confusion away, I need you to remain linked with the others so that
their strength and their confidence can help you. I need you, Goval. I
need you to help me build a future for the Borg. I can't do it without
you. Will you help me? 
GOVAL: Yes. I will. 
[Holding cell]

LAFORGE: Lore must have told Data to take my visor
because he realised I could see a carrier wave that was radiating from
him. 
PICARD: A carrier wave? Is that how he's manipulating Data? 
LAFORGE: I think what's happening is that Lore is tapping into the chip
he stole from Doctor Soong and somehow he's found a way to transmit
part of that emotional programme to Data. 
TROI: But the only emotions Data seems to feel are negative. 
LAFORGE: Yeah, I'm sure that's intentional. But in order for Data to be
affected by those emotions, Lore would have had to disable his ethical
programme first. 
PICARD: Can we reactivate it? 
LAFORGE: If I can generate a phased kedion pulse at the right
frequency, that would trigger Data's subsystems and reboot the
programme. 
PICARD: And although Lore would still be feeding him negative emotions,
at least Data might listen to us. 
LAFORGE: Right. 
TROI: I think it's worth a try. 
LAFORGE: So, got any ideas on how we generate a kedion pulse? 
(Data enters and hauls Geordi to his feet) 
PICARD: Data, where are you taking him? 
DATA: That is not your concern. 
PICARD: Data, wait. Let us talk to you. 
