TROI TAITT LAFORGE BARNABY PICARD RIKER SALAZAR HELM CRUSHER DATA POWELL

[Bridge]

CRUSHER: Another minute and we would have had them.

[Planet surface]

RIKER: Riker to any team leader. 
POWELL [OC]: Lieutenant Powell here, sir. 
RIKER: Round up everybody who was left behind. Take cover. Try to avoid
any contact with the Borg. 
POWELL [OC]: Aye, sir. 
RIKER: Riker out. Even if Beverly can get back to Federation space,
it'll be a few days before Starfleet can get any ships here. Until
then, we're on our own.

[Holding cell]

PICARD: Data, you must realise that something has
happened to you. The Data I know would never have agreed to be a
willing party to Lore's plan. 
DATA: (taking the comm. badges) I now realise that my life aboard the
Enterprise was a waste. My quest to become human was misguided. An
evolutionary step in the wrong direction. 
TROI: Data, all I'm sensing from you is anger and hatred. Have you felt
any other emotions? 
DATA: There are no other emotions. 
LAFORGE: Data, just because you haven't experienced certain emotions
doesn't mean they don't exist. Lore is only feeding you the negative
ones. 
DATA: Counsellor Troi told me herself that feelings are not negative or
positive. It is how we act on them that makes them good or bad. 
PICARD: Fine. But what about the things that Lore is proposing? What
about the lives that have already been lost? 
DATA: You simply do not understand. In a quest such as ours, sacrifices
have to be made. It is regrettable, but the greater good must be
served. Give me your visor. 
LAFORGE: Why? 
DATA: Give it to me or I will take it by force. 
(Geordi takes it off) 
DATA: I am not your puppet anymore. 
(he turns on the forcefield and walks away)

[Bridge]

(relief crew enter the Bridge) 
TAITT: Sir, we've reached the coordinates of the conduit. The tachyon
matrix is energised and ready to go. And Lieutenant Barnaby has
returned from the surface. He'll be relieving me. 
CRUSHER: Right. Stand by to trigger the conduit. Taitt. I want you to
stay on the Bridge. I'll need a Science Officer at the aft station. 
TAITT: Yes, sir. 
CRUSHER: Helm, set a course to return to the planet. 
HELM: Aye, sir. 
CRUSHER: I'm not leaving those people stranded back there. An emergency
buoy can transmit a copy of our log entries to Starfleet just as easily
as we can. Ensign, prepare a buoy and launch it when ready. 
TAITT: Aye, sir. 
CRUSHER: Lieutenant, open the conduit. 
TAITT: Launching buoy now, sir. 
CRUSHER: Lieutenant, scan for any Borg ships between here and the
planet. 
BARNABY: Sensors detect no vessels. 
TAITT: We have to assume the ship that attacked us is still in orbit. 
CRUSHER: How long will we have before they can detect us and intercept?

TAITT: If their sensors function as well as ours it could be as little
as thirty seconds. 
CRUSHER: Crusher to Salazar. How long will it take to get the rest of
the crew off the surface? 
SALAZAR [OC]: One minute should do it. 
CRUSHER: We don't have one minute. How much can you shave off that? 
[Transporter room]

SALAZAR: If I can get a good lock on them quickly,
I might be able to do it in forty five or fifty seconds. 
[Bridge]

CRUSHER: We need to buy ourselves fifteen seconds.
Lieutenant, is there any way we can use the planet as a barrier to keep
the Borg from realising we're in orbit? 
BARNABY: We can enter orbit while they're on the far side of the
planet. And if we delay dropping out of warp until the last possible
instant, we could gain a few more seconds. 
TAITT: If your calculations are even slightly off, we'd hit the
atmosphere. 
BARNABY: I'll have to be sure my calculations are accurate, Ensign. 
CRUSHER: Let's do it. Helm, hard about. 
HELM: Aye, sir. 
