TROI TAITT LAFORGE WORF BARNABY PICARD HUGH RIKER SALAZAR HELM CRUSHER DATA

[Caverns]

RIKER: Hugh? 
HUGH: Why are you here, Commander Riker? Hasn't the crew of the
Enterprise caused enough damage already? 
(a little later) 
WORF: So you blame us for what has happened to the Borg? 
HUGH: You gave me a sense of individuality, changed me, then sent me
back to the Collective. You must have known that change would be passed
on to others. 
RIKER: We considered it. We knew it was a possibility. 
HUGH: Then you made it possible for Lore to dominate us. 
WORF: I cannot accept that. Lore is only one. The Borg could have
stopped him. 
HUGH: You don't know the condition we were in when he found us. Before
my experience on the Enterprise, the Borg were a single-minded
Collective. The voices in our heads were smooth and flowing. But after
I returned, those voices began to change. They became uneven,
discordant. For the first time, individual Borg had differing ideas
about how to proceed. We couldn't function. Some Borg fought each
other. Others simply shut themselves down. Many starved to death. 
RIKER: And then Lore came along. 
HUGH: You probably can't imagine what it is like to be so lost and
frightened that you will listen to any voice which promises change. 
WORF: Even if that voice insists on controlling you. 
HUGH: That's what we wanted. Someone to show us the way out of
confusion. Lore promised clarity and purpose. In the beginning, he
seemed like a saviour. The promise of becoming a superior race, of
becoming fully artificial was
compelling. We gladly did everything he asked of us. But after a while,
it became clear that Lore had no idea how to keep his promise. That's
when he began talking about the need for us to make sacrifices. Before
we realised it, this was the result. 
RIKER: What happened to them? 
HUGH: Lore began to experiment, trying to re-make us in his image. This
is the result of my encounter with the Enterprise, Commander. So you
can see I don't particularly welcome your presence here. 
RIKER: I'm sorry you feel that way. We just came to get our people. We
won't cause you any more trouble. 
HUGH: Tell me about my friend. 
RIKER: Friend? 
HUGH: The human called Geordi. 
RIKER: I wish I could tell you about him. We think he may be held
inside the compound. 
HUGH: I cannot help you. I cannot risk our being discovered. 
RIKER: Can you at least show us a way into the compound? 
HUGH: These caverns lead to tunnels which run beneath the compound.
Some of them connect with the environmental control ducts. 
WORF: Show us. If we can determine the geography of the compound, we
can form a rescue plan.

[Lore's lab]

(Geordi is strapped down on a metal frame that's
raising) 
LAFORGE: Data? Who's there? 
DATA: (as Picard) Geordi? 
LAFORGE: Captain. 
DATA: Shh. We're getting out of here. 
LAFORGE: Come on, hurry. Data was just here. I think he went to get
something. 
DATA: (as himself) Too late. My brother suggested that I try to develop
my sense of humour. What do you think? 
LAFORGE: I think it needs a little work. 
(Data aims an instrument at Geordi's visor inputs) 
LAFORGE: What's happening? 
DATA: I'm attemptin to neutralise your pain receptors. 
LAFORGE: What are you going to do to me? 
(Data is injecting something into Geordi's forehead) 
DATA: I am implanting nano-cortical fibres in your cerebrum. They are
designed to learn and mimic your neural firing patterns. Once they are
in place, I will destroy the existing brain cells. We'll see if the
artificial neural network is able to take over your cognitive
functions. 
LAFORGE: Data, listen. Lore is controlling you. He's transmitting a
carrier wave which is affecting your positronic matrix. 
DATA: If the procedure is successful, your cognitive processing
functions will be considerably improved. 
LAFORGE: Don't you care that he's manipulating you? 
DATA: However, there is a sixty percent chance you will not survive the
procedure. 
LAFORGE: I don't care much for those odds. 
(more injections) 
DATA: They are cause for concern. However, I still have Counsellor Troi
and Captain Picard. The odds are that at least one of the procedures
will be successful.

[Holding cell]

TROI: Help me! 
(a Borg comes to see Picard lying on the floor) 
TROI: He tried to escape. The force field sent him into neural shock.
If he dies, Lore will blame you. 
(the innocent Borg takes down the force field and enters. He leans over
Picard and gets one of his tubes pulled out, rendering him unconscious)

PICARD: See if the corridor is empty. 
(but Data is bringing Geordi back) 
DATA: Drop it or I will break his neck. 
(Troi drops the Borg hand weapon and helps guide Geordi into the cell) 
DATA: Take him. 
(Borg remove their fallen comrade) 
PICARD: What have you done to him? 
DATA: I will be back for him later. 
(Data leaves) 
TROI: Geordi, are you in pain? 
LAFORGE: No. I'm just a little dizzy. 
PICARD: I was able to take part of a transceiver from the guard's
interlink system. I think that it uses some kind of phased-pulse
technology. Do you think it could be modified to generate a kedion
pulse that would reboot Data's
programme? 
LAFORGE: Yeah, yeah, it's possible. See if you can locate the phase
modulation circuitry. 
TROI: I'll watch the door. 
PICARD: All right, I think I've found it. 
LAFORGE: Okay, good. Now, do you see anything that we might be able to
use as a flux inhibitor? 
[Bridge]

(at an aft station)
TAITT: Sensors still can't locate the Borg ship. I'm trying to filter
out the interference. 
BARNABY: We'll be within transporter range in nineteen seconds. 
TAITT: I'm starting to get sensor resolution. There's the ship. 
CRUSHER: We'll enter orbit here. 
BARNABY: Helm, new course, heading zero five two mark seven. 
HELM: Aye, sir. 
BARNABY: Stand by to drop out of warp in eight seconds. 
TAITT: Once we're in orbit, we should have about forty five seconds
before they intercept us. 
CRUSHER: Let's hope it's enough time. 
BARNABY: Emergency deceleration in five seconds. 
CRUSHER: Hold on. 
(whoomph) 
CRUSHER: Report. 
TAITT: We're in standard orbit, sir. The Borg ship is on the planet's
far side, and is moving to intercept. 
CRUSHER: Bridge to Transporter rooms. Begin evacuations. 
BARNABY: The Borg will be in weapons range in thirty two seconds. We
still can't locate Captain Picard's team and there's no sign of
Commander Riker or Lieutenant Worf. 
CRUSHER: Crusher to Salazar. Report. 
SALAZAR [OC]: We're pulling the last teams off right now. 
[Transporter room]

SALAZAR: But there are six people still unaccounted
for. 
CRUSHER [OC]: Keep trying. 
[Bridge]

BARNABY: The Borg ship is powering up its weapons
array. 
CRUSHER: Come on, Chief. It's now or never. 
TAITT: They're preparing to fire. 
CRUSHER: Raise shields. 
BARNABY: The port nacelle's been hit. 
CRUSHER: Helm, get us out of here. 
HELM: Aye, sir. 
BARNABY: We've lost warp engines. 
CRUSHER: Evasive manoeuvres, full impulse. 
(they sail past the massive Borg vessel) 
TAITT: Shields down to eighty percent. 
CRUSHER: Fire phasers. 
BARNABY: Direct hit. No damage to the Borg ship. 
TAITT: Shields down to seventy three percent. 
CRUSHER: What's the status of the warp engines? 
BARNABY: Still down. We can't outrun them. 
CRUSHER: Helm, set a new course, heading three four four mark six. Full
impulse. 
HELM: Aye, sir. 
TAITT: Sir, that heading takes us directly into the sun. 
CRUSHER: The databanks should contain information about a process
called metaphasic shielding. 
BARNABY: I know about that research. Commander La Forge was developing
a programme
that would implement metaphasic properties. 
CRUSHER: Right. How far along was he? 
BARNABY: It's in the databanks but it's never been tested. 
CRUSHER: If we had metaphasic shielding, we could enter the sun's
corona but the Borg ship wouldn't be able to follow. Can you bring the
programme online? 
BARNABY: I can, but we have no way of knowing if the shields will hold.

TAITT: Sir, hull temperature is rising. Now at twelve thousand degrees
C. Radiation level nearing ten thousand rads. 
(weapons hit) 
CRUSHER: Report. 
TAITT: Shields at sixty two percent. 
CRUSHER: Lieutenant, activate the metaphasic programme. It's our best
shot. 
BARNABY: Aye, sir. 
TAITT: Hull temperature is critical. We can't withstand this heat much
longer. 
BARNABY: Programme is online. Engaging metaphasic shield now. 
TAITT: Hull temperature dropping. Down to seven thousand degrees. 
CRUSHER: Maintain course. 
BARNABY: The Borg ship has broken off pursuit. 
CRUSHER: All stop. 
TAITT: Sir, the Borg ship is taking up position relative to ours.
They're going to wait for us to come out. 
CRUSHER: The question is, how long can we survive in here?

