RIKER CROSIS CRUSHER LAFORGE WORF BARNABY PICARD HUGH TROI LORE GOVAL HELM TAITT DATA

[Bridge]

CRUSHER: We need to buy ourselves fifteen seconds.
Lieutenant, is there any way we can use the planet as a barrier to keep
the Borg from realising we're in orbit? 
BARNABY: We can enter orbit while they're on the far side of the
planet. And if we delay dropping out of warp until the last possible
instant, we could gain a few more seconds. 
TAITT: If your calculations are even slightly off, we'd hit the
atmosphere. 
BARNABY: I'll have to be sure my calculations are accurate, Ensign. 
CRUSHER: Let's do it. Helm, hard about. 
HELM: Aye, sir. 
[Planet surface]

WORF: Still no sign of the structure. 
RIKER: With all this interference it could be a hundred metres away and
we wouldn't know it. This could take hours. 
WORF: I am detecting a faint energy reading. 
RIKER: Residual thermal traces. Somebody stood here. 
WORF: The decay rate indicates it could be human. 
RIKER: They took this path.

[Borg hall]

LORE: (to Borg) Now, thank you. There you are,
brother. 
DATA: Here is the visor. May I ask why you wanted it? 
LORE: I thought it might look good on me. What do you think? Maybe we
should work on your sense of humour, brother. Actually, I was thinking
La Forge's implants might make him an ideal test subject for my
experiment. 
DATA: All the Borg you have experimented on so far have suffered
extensive brain damage. 
LORE: Using the humans to perfect the procedure will allow us to
prevent any further Borg deaths. 
DATA: I understand. 
LORE: Good. What is it? 
CROSIS: This Borg disconnected himself from the others. He would not
let me hear his thoughts. 
LORE: I've asked you to stay linked to Crosis at all times. You know
that, don't you? 
GOVAL: Yes. 
LORE: I know this must be difficult for you. I know how uncertain you
must feel. All of these sensations are new and they can be frightening.
Isn't that right? 
GOVAL: Yes. I have doubts. 
LORE: Of course you do. It's only natural. No one is going to blame you
for that. But in order to lose those doubts, to keep you from fear and
confusion away, I need you to remain linked with the others so that
their strength and their confidence can help you. I need you, Goval. I
need you to help me build a future for the Borg. I can't do it without
you. Will you help me? 
GOVAL: Yes. I will. 
[Holding cell]

LAFORGE: Lore must have told Data to take my visor
because he realised I could see a carrier wave that was radiating from
him. 
PICARD: A carrier wave? Is that how he's manipulating Data? 
LAFORGE: I think what's happening is that Lore is tapping into the chip
he stole from Doctor Soong and somehow he's found a way to transmit
part of that emotional programme to Data. 
TROI: But the only emotions Data seems to feel are negative. 
LAFORGE: Yeah, I'm sure that's intentional. But in order for Data to be
affected by those emotions, Lore would have had to disable his ethical
programme first. 
PICARD: Can we reactivate it? 
LAFORGE: If I can generate a phased kedion pulse at the right
frequency, that would trigger Data's subsystems and reboot the
programme. 
PICARD: And although Lore would still be feeding him negative emotions,
at least Data might listen to us. 
LAFORGE: Right. 
TROI: I think it's worth a try. 
LAFORGE: So, got any ideas on how we generate a kedion pulse? 
(Data enters and hauls Geordi to his feet) 
PICARD: Data, where are you taking him? 
DATA: That is not your concern. 
PICARD: Data, wait. Let us talk to you. 
[Planet surface]

(Worf and Riker hide from a Borg patrol, then come
over a ridge.) 
WORF: Commander. 
(it's the building, and they're surrounded by Borg)

[Caverns]

RIKER: Hugh? 
HUGH: Why are you here, Commander Riker? Hasn't the crew of the
Enterprise caused enough damage already? 
(a little later) 
WORF: So you blame us for what has happened to the Borg? 
HUGH: You gave me a sense of individuality, changed me, then sent me
back to the Collective. You must have known that change would be passed
on to others. 
RIKER: We considered it. We knew it was a possibility. 
HUGH: Then you made it possible for Lore to dominate us. 
WORF: I cannot accept that. Lore is only one. The Borg could have
stopped him. 
HUGH: You don't know the condition we were in when he found us. Before
my experience on the Enterprise, the Borg were a single-minded
Collective. The voices in our heads were smooth and flowing. But after
I returned, those voices began to change. They became uneven,
discordant. For the first time, individual Borg had differing ideas
about how to proceed. We couldn't function. Some Borg fought each
other. Others simply shut themselves down. Many starved to death. 
RIKER: And then Lore came along. 
HUGH: You probably can't imagine what it is like to be so lost and
frightened that you will listen to any voice which promises change. 
WORF: Even if that voice insists on controlling you. 
HUGH: That's what we wanted. Someone to show us the way out of
confusion. Lore promised clarity and purpose. In the beginning, he
seemed like a saviour. The promise of becoming a superior race, of
becoming fully artificial was
compelling. We gladly did everything he asked of us. But after a while,
it became clear that Lore had no idea how to keep his promise. That's
when he began talking about the need for us to make sacrifices. Before
we realised it, this was the result. 
RIKER: What happened to them? 
HUGH: Lore began to experiment, trying to re-make us in his image. This
is the result of my encounter with the Enterprise, Commander. So you
can see I don't particularly welcome your presence here. 
RIKER: I'm sorry you feel that way. We just came to get our people. We
won't cause you any more trouble. 
HUGH: Tell me about my friend. 
RIKER: Friend? 
HUGH: The human called Geordi. 
RIKER: I wish I could tell you about him. We think he may be held
inside the compound. 
HUGH: I cannot help you. I cannot risk our being discovered. 
RIKER: Can you at least show us a way into the compound? 
HUGH: These caverns lead to tunnels which run beneath the compound.
Some of them connect with the environmental control ducts. 
WORF: Show us. If we can determine the geography of the compound, we
can form a rescue plan.

