RIKER CROSIS CRUSHER WORF BARNABY PICARD HUGH HELM LORE TAITT DATA
late sure energetic doing confused sacrifices aren time helm

[Borg compound, outside]

LORE: There you are, brother. Have you made any
progress with La Forge? 
DATA: It is too early to tell if the nano-cortical fibres performed
their function. 
LORE: I suspect none of the humans will survive the process but then,
it's their own fault, isn't it? They should never have come here. What
were they thinking? 
DATA: They came looking for me. 
LORE: Humans are so sentimental. 
DATA: I betrayed them. If they die, I am responsible. 
LORE: Why are you talking like that? Is something wrong with your
programming? Maybe I should check your systems. 
DATA: I do not want you to check my systems. I must resolve these
issues myself. 
LORE: I think I've made a mistake. I don't believe you can tolerate the
amount of emotion I've given you. Perhaps I should cut back a little. 
(he pulls back a fingernail) 
LORE: How's that? 
DATA: I do not like it. 
LORE: Then you prefer having more emotions? 
DATA: Yes. 
LORE: They give you pleasure. 
DATA: Yes. Please, I want more. 
LORE: All right, a little more. For now. Aren't you going to thank me? 
DATA: Thank you. 
LORE: Don't mention it. I just hope this helps to clarify things for
you. 
(Data leaves) 
LORE: I am concerned about my brother, Crosis. I don't believe he
really wants to be a part of our great future.

[Bridge]

BARNABY: Sir, metaphasic shielding is losing
integrity. 
CRUSHER: Can you stabilise it? 
BARNABY: No. We won't be able to stay in here longer than another three
or four minutes. 
CRUSHER: Do we have warp engines yet? 
BARNABY: Last estimate was another half hour. 
TAITT: Sir? I think I have an idea. I think it's possible we could
induce a solar fusion eruption that would destroy the Borg ship. 
BARNABY: What? 
TAITT: We need to direct a highly energetic particle beam onto the
sun's surface. That should produce a superfluid gas eruption. If we
target the right spot, the eruption would envelop the Borg ship. 
CRUSHER: How do you know this will work? 
TAITT: I did my senior honours thesis on solar dynamics. 
BARNABY: Excuse me, sir, but this isn't the Academy. And a student
thesis is a long way from a workable plan. 
TAITT: I've already configured the tractor emitters to create the
particle beam and I've located the target point on the surface. 
BARNABY: If her calculations are off, that eruption could encompass us.

TAITT: Well I'll just have to make sure my calculations are accurate,
Lieutenant. 
CRUSHER: Let's do it. 
TAITT: Yes, sir. 
(a beam lances out from the belly of the Enterprise) 
TAITT: The target area of the photosphere is destabilising. Pressure
wave expansion is accelerating. 
BARNABY: Subsurface fusion has been initiated. An eruption is forming
on the surface. 
(whoosh, kaBOOM) 
BARNABY: She did it! The Borg ship has been destroyed, sir. 
CRUSHER: Helm, take us back to the planet. Full impulse. 
HELM: Aye, sir. 
CRUSHER: Well done, Taitt. 
[Holding cell]

(Data enters) 
PICARD: You're killing him. He won't survive another session. 
DATA: I did not come for him. I came for you.

[Borg hall]

PICARD: Data, it's not too late. If you remove the
fibres, then Geordi might yet recover. 
DATA: That would not be possible. 
PICARD: Why? Because Lore tells you so? 
DATA: It is for the greater good. 
PICARD: Good? Data, isn't good and bad, right and wrong, a function of
your ethical
programme? 
DATA: That is correct. 
PICARD: What does that programme tell you about what you're doing to
Geordi? About what you and Lore are doing to the Borg? It tells you
that these things are wrong, doesn't it, Data? So how can actions that
are wrong lead to a greater good? 
DATA: You are attempting to confuse me. 
PICARD: No, you're not confused, Data. You're sensing the truth. Your
ethical programme
is fighting the negative emotions that Lore is sending you. 
LORE: Ah, Captain. Thank you so much for joining us. You are going to
assist me in a most important ceremony.

[Cavern]

WORF: We can use the environmental control ducts to
get into the compound. They should lead us to the detention area. 
RIKER: We'll have to move fast. If we need to stun one of the guards,
the Borg will know right away that he's been hurt. 
HUGH: When they realise, your escape route may be compromised. 
RIKER: I guess we'll have to take that chance. 
HUGH: Good luck, Commander. 
[Borg hall]

LORE: It's time to put aside all doubts, brother.
It's time to close the door on the past and commit yourself to the
great work that lies ahead of us. I need to know I can count on you. As
proof, I want you to kill Picard. 
(Data raises the weapon) 
DATA: No. That would be wrong. 
LORE: I didn't think you'd be able to do it. You've spent too many
years among humans. 
CROSIS: Hold him. 
(we see Hugh amongst the crowd) 
LORE: I've asked many sacrifices of you. Sacrifices I knew were
necessary in order to build a better future. I want you to know that I
ask no more of you than I am prepared to give myself. I am willing to
make the greatest sacrifice of all. My own dear brother. Goodbye, Data.

HUGH: No! 
(Hugh rushes forward and stops Lore from firing. Crosis pushes him off
then is shot by either Riker or Worf up in the gallery. Fights break
out between Lore's Borg and Hugh's group. Lore makes a run for it and
Data follows. Picard is totally ignored.) 
