LORE PICARD TROI DATA

[Borg hall]

LORE: What do you think of my followers, Picard?
Impressive, aren't they? 
PICARD: I'm not particularly impressed. All you've done is teach them
to enjoy killing. 
DATA: You are wrong, Captain. My brother and I serve a much higher
purpose. 
TROI: Data, I can sense feelings in you. 
DATA: Yes. My brother has made that possible. 
PICARD: He gave you the chip. The one Doctor Soong made for you. 
LORE: No, no, no, no, no. I still have the emotional programme my
father designed. I wouldn't want to give it up. It's what has given me
such a strong sense of family, an intense desire to reunite with my
dear brother. 
PICARD: How did he do it, Data? What made you decide to come here? 
LORE: I am talking to you, Picard. I will tell you all you need to
know. 
PICARD: You're controlling him, and you've corrupted the Borg. 
LORE: You simply don't understand, do you? You have no idea what has
happened here. How I found my true calling. How the Borg found
something to believe in. 
PICARD: I would like to learn about that, but I want Data to tell us. 
LORE: I told you. I will tell you what you need to know. 
PICARD: How about that, Data? He won't even let you talk. 
DATA: Do not try to drive a wedge between us, Captain. I am loyal to my
brother. 
LORE: You see, Picard? He's not your pawn anymore. I've helped him to
break free, just as I've helped them. Look at them. Look at what I've
helped them become. They're no longer simply mindless automatons.
They're passionate. Alive. 
TROI: Are you saying that you caused them to become individuals? 
LORE: No, you did that. You and your friends. All I did was clean up
the mess you made when that Borg you befriended returned to his ship. 
DATA: Hugh interfaced with the others and transferred his sense of
individuality to them. It nearly destroyed them. 
PICARD: Data, do you remember when Hugh was on the Enterprise? Do you
remember what you were like then? 
LORE: That doesn't matter. 
PICARD: It does to me. I want to know what has happened to Data. 
LORE: What's important is what I've done here. How I found my calling.
I know now why I was created. No one can ever take that away from me.
Without me, they would have perished. When I stumbled on their ship,
they were lost, disoriented, they had no idea how to function as
individuals. They couldn't even navigate their own vessel. They had
lost their sense of purpose. I gave them their purpose. And they gave
me mine. 
DATA: The Borg aspire to the perfection my Brother and I represent.
Fully artificial life forms. We are their future. 
LORE: The reign of biological life forms is coming to an end. You,
Picard, and those like you are obsolete. Take them, brother. 
(Lore takes the phasers away)

Acting Captain's log, supplemental. The skeleton
crew left on board the Enterprise is unable to help in the search for
Commander Data. The planet's unusual EM field is interfering with the
ship's sensors, severely limiting their effectiveness. 
