RIKER CROSIS WORF PICARD HUGH LORE DATA

[Holding cell]

(Data enters) 
PICARD: You're killing him. He won't survive another session. 
DATA: I did not come for him. I came for you.

[Borg hall]

PICARD: Data, it's not too late. If you remove the
fibres, then Geordi might yet recover. 
DATA: That would not be possible. 
PICARD: Why? Because Lore tells you so? 
DATA: It is for the greater good. 
PICARD: Good? Data, isn't good and bad, right and wrong, a function of
your ethical
programme? 
DATA: That is correct. 
PICARD: What does that programme tell you about what you're doing to
Geordi? About what you and Lore are doing to the Borg? It tells you
that these things are wrong, doesn't it, Data? So how can actions that
are wrong lead to a greater good? 
DATA: You are attempting to confuse me. 
PICARD: No, you're not confused, Data. You're sensing the truth. Your
ethical programme
is fighting the negative emotions that Lore is sending you. 
LORE: Ah, Captain. Thank you so much for joining us. You are going to
assist me in a most important ceremony.

[Cavern]

WORF: We can use the environmental control ducts to
get into the compound. They should lead us to the detention area. 
RIKER: We'll have to move fast. If we need to stun one of the guards,
the Borg will know right away that he's been hurt. 
HUGH: When they realise, your escape route may be compromised. 
RIKER: I guess we'll have to take that chance. 
HUGH: Good luck, Commander. 
[Borg hall]

LORE: It's time to put aside all doubts, brother.
It's time to close the door on the past and commit yourself to the
great work that lies ahead of us. I need to know I can count on you. As
proof, I want you to kill Picard. 
(Data raises the weapon) 
DATA: No. That would be wrong. 
LORE: I didn't think you'd be able to do it. You've spent too many
years among humans. 
CROSIS: Hold him. 
(we see Hugh amongst the crowd) 
LORE: I've asked many sacrifices of you. Sacrifices I knew were
necessary in order to build a better future. I want you to know that I
ask no more of you than I am prepared to give myself. I am willing to
make the greatest sacrifice of all. My own dear brother. Goodbye, Data.

HUGH: No! 
(Hugh rushes forward and stops Lore from firing. Crosis pushes him off
then is shot by either Riker or Worf up in the gallery. Fights break
out between Lore's Borg and Hugh's group. Lore makes a run for it and
Data follows. Picard is totally ignored.) 
[Lore's lab]

DATA: (holding a weapon) Lore. 
LORE: You should be careful with that, brother. Somebody could get
hurt. 
DATA: What are you doing? 
LORE: I've got a way out of here. I'm willing to forget about what
happened back there and take you with me. We don't need anyone else.
We're brothers. I'll give you the chip our father made. It contains
much more than just emotions. It has memories. Memories our father
wanted you to have. 
(Lore zaps Data with emotion, making him gasp, but Data still managed
to shoot Lore) 
DATA: Lore, I must deactivate you now. 
LORE: Without me, you will never feel emotion again. 
DATA: I know, but you leave me no other choice. 
LORE: I love you, brother. 
DATA: Goodbye, Lore. 
[Borg hall]

PICARD: What about Geordi and Troi? 
RIKER: The Enterprise is in orbit. I had them beamed aboard. 
(Data enters) 
DATA: Lore is no longer functioning, sir. He must be disassembled so
that he is no longer a threat. 
PICARD: Welcome back, Data. 
DATA: Thank you, sir. 
RIKER: What made you change your mind, Hugh? 
HUGH: Perhaps my encounter with the Enterprise affected me more than I
realised. 
PICARD: What will you do now? 
HUGH: I don't know. We can't go back to the Borg Collective, and we no
longer have a leader here. 
PICARD: I'm not sure that's true. 
HUGH: Perhaps in time, we will learn to function as individuals and
work together as a group. 
PICARD: Good luck, Hugh. 
HUGH: Goodbye.

Captain's log, stardate 47025.4. We have returned
to Federation Space and are en route to Starbase two nine five. Mister
La Forge remains under Doctor Crusher's care.

