RIKER CROSIS WORF BARNABY PICARD HUGH LORE TAITT HELM CRUSHER DATA

[Bridge]

BARNABY: Sir, metaphasic shielding is losing
integrity. 
CRUSHER: Can you stabilise it? 
BARNABY: No. We won't be able to stay in here longer than another three
or four minutes. 
CRUSHER: Do we have warp engines yet? 
BARNABY: Last estimate was another half hour. 
TAITT: Sir? I think I have an idea. I think it's possible we could
induce a solar fusion eruption that would destroy the Borg ship. 
BARNABY: What? 
TAITT: We need to direct a highly energetic particle beam onto the
sun's surface. That should produce a superfluid gas eruption. If we
target the right spot, the eruption would envelop the Borg ship. 
CRUSHER: How do you know this will work? 
TAITT: I did my senior honours thesis on solar dynamics. 
BARNABY: Excuse me, sir, but this isn't the Academy. And a student
thesis is a long way from a workable plan. 
TAITT: I've already configured the tractor emitters to create the
particle beam and I've located the target point on the surface. 
BARNABY: If her calculations are off, that eruption could encompass us.

TAITT: Well I'll just have to make sure my calculations are accurate,
Lieutenant. 
CRUSHER: Let's do it. 
TAITT: Yes, sir. 
(a beam lances out from the belly of the Enterprise) 
TAITT: The target area of the photosphere is destabilising. Pressure
wave expansion is accelerating. 
BARNABY: Subsurface fusion has been initiated. An eruption is forming
on the surface. 
(whoosh, kaBOOM) 
BARNABY: She did it! The Borg ship has been destroyed, sir. 
CRUSHER: Helm, take us back to the planet. Full impulse. 
HELM: Aye, sir. 
CRUSHER: Well done, Taitt. 
[Holding cell]

(Data enters) 
PICARD: You're killing him. He won't survive another session. 
DATA: I did not come for him. I came for you.

[Borg hall]

PICARD: Data, it's not too late. If you remove the
fibres, then Geordi might yet recover. 
DATA: That would not be possible. 
PICARD: Why? Because Lore tells you so? 
DATA: It is for the greater good. 
PICARD: Good? Data, isn't good and bad, right and wrong, a function of
your ethical
programme? 
DATA: That is correct. 
PICARD: What does that programme tell you about what you're doing to
Geordi? About what you and Lore are doing to the Borg? It tells you
that these things are wrong, doesn't it, Data? So how can actions that
are wrong lead to a greater good? 
DATA: You are attempting to confuse me. 
PICARD: No, you're not confused, Data. You're sensing the truth. Your
ethical programme
is fighting the negative emotions that Lore is sending you. 
LORE: Ah, Captain. Thank you so much for joining us. You are going to
assist me in a most important ceremony.

[Cavern]

WORF: We can use the environmental control ducts to
get into the compound. They should lead us to the detention area. 
RIKER: We'll have to move fast. If we need to stun one of the guards,
the Borg will know right away that he's been hurt. 
HUGH: When they realise, your escape route may be compromised. 
RIKER: I guess we'll have to take that chance. 
HUGH: Good luck, Commander. 
[Borg hall]

LORE: It's time to put aside all doubts, brother.
It's time to close the door on the past and commit yourself to the
great work that lies ahead of us. I need to know I can count on you. As
proof, I want you to kill Picard. 
(Data raises the weapon) 
DATA: No. That would be wrong. 
LORE: I didn't think you'd be able to do it. You've spent too many
years among humans. 
CROSIS: Hold him. 
(we see Hugh amongst the crowd) 
LORE: I've asked many sacrifices of you. Sacrifices I knew were
necessary in order to build a better future. I want you to know that I
ask no more of you than I am prepared to give myself. I am willing to
make the greatest sacrifice of all. My own dear brother. Goodbye, Data.

HUGH: No! 
(Hugh rushes forward and stops Lore from firing. Crosis pushes him off
then is shot by either Riker or Worf up in the gallery. Fights break
out between Lore's Borg and Hugh's group. Lore makes a run for it and
Data follows. Picard is totally ignored.) 
[Lore's lab]

DATA: (holding a weapon) Lore. 
LORE: You should be careful with that, brother. Somebody could get
hurt. 
DATA: What are you doing? 
LORE: I've got a way out of here. I'm willing to forget about what
happened back there and take you with me. We don't need anyone else.
We're brothers. I'll give you the chip our father made. It contains
much more than just emotions. It has memories. Memories our father
wanted you to have. 
(Lore zaps Data with emotion, making him gasp, but Data still managed
to shoot Lore) 
DATA: Lore, I must deactivate you now. 
LORE: Without me, you will never feel emotion again. 
DATA: I know, but you leave me no other choice. 
LORE: I love you, brother. 
DATA: Goodbye, Lore. 
