RIKER WOMAN WORF PICARD BYLETH TROI LOQUEL CRUSHER DATA VOVAL

[Ten Forward]

RIKER: Do you think there's enough food here, Data?
(to woman) Good evening. 
WOMAN: Good evening. 
(at the buffet table) 
TROI: So first thing tomorrow, I thought I'd take you on a tour of the
operational centres and the residential decks of the ship. Then we
could spend some time discussing the cultural underpinnings of your
society. 
LOQUEL: Are you going to eat? 
TROI: Excuse me? 
LOQUEL: You have no food on your plate. Are you going to eat? 
TROI: Oh, well, actually, I was waiting until we got to the desserts. 
LOQUEL: Desserts? What is this? 
TROI: It's something we eat after the main course. It's usually very
sweet, it's usually very bad for you. We eat it purely for pleasure. If
you ask me, it's the best part of any meal. 
LOQUEL: My people eat only for nourishment. 
TROI: Oh, well, let me introduce you to some of my favourites. This is
peach cobbler with whipped cream. Tarvokian powder cake. And this is my
favourite. Ktarian chocolate puff. I don't know exactly what's inside,
but I think it's made with seventeen varieties of chocolate. 
(Troi gives Loquel a sample) 
LOQUEL: That is, that is 
TROI: Delicious? 
LOQUEL: Delicious. 
TROI: Ambassador, I think we're going to get along very well. Shall we?

(Loquel takes his loaded plate and a tray of small desserts with him to
a table) 
(meanwhile, at another table, Worf and Crusher eat with Byleth) 
BYLETH: This is unacceptable. 
WORF: I am sorry you do not care for our 
BYLETH: Bring me new food. I require a higher protein and enzymatic
content. 
CRUSHER: Ambassador 
BYLETH: Yes. 
CRUSHER: It's the custom usually in a situation like this, for us to
serve ourselves. It's called a buffet, and 
BYLETH: Bring me new food. 
CRUSHER: Ambassador 
WORF: Doctor, it is all right. I am happy to bring more food. 
(Worf slices a meat joint as if he wishes it were Byleth) 
DATA: How is your diplomatic assignment progressing? 
WORF: Fine. 
DATA: I have heard that in moments of diplomatic tension, it is often
helpful to find elements of commonality. 
WORF: Ambassador Byleth is demanding, temperamental and rude. 
DATA: You share all of those qualities in abundance. Perhaps you should
try to build on your similarities. 
(Worf tenses, then gazes at the sharp knife in his hand)

[Iyaaran Shuttlecraft]

PICARD: So, I understand that your homeworld has
some of the most spectacular crystal formations in this sector. Is
there any place in particular that you would recommend I visit while
I'm there? 
VOVAL: No. 
PICARD: Well, I, er, what's our ETA? 
VOVAL: Seventeen hours, thirty two minutes. 
PICARD: I think I'll go update my itinerary. 
(a jolt, an alarm goes off ) 
PICARD: What happened? 
VOVAL: There's been a system-wide power failure. 
PICARD: What's the cause? 
VOVAL: We have entered an energy disruption field. I do not recognise
the configuration. Attitude controls failing. 
PICARD: There is an M-class planet in this system. Can we reach it? 
VOVAL: I will try. 
PICARD: Inertial dampeners are offline. Life support is failing. 
VOVAL: Entering the planet's atmosphere. 
PICARD: Velocity dropping. Thermal shields at full power. 
VOVAL: Prepare for impact. 
(they crash on a rocky planet with a penchant for horizontal lightning
and are knocked out. Picard wakes first.) 
PICARD: Voval. Voval, try not to move. You may have a concussion.
Picard to Enterprise. Picard to Enterprise, do you read me? Too much
interference. 
(Picard gets a tricorder from his overnight bag) 
PICARD: There is a structure of some kind. Some energy readings about
two kilometres south of here. Voval, I'm going to try to find help. Do
you understand? Now, try to stay conscious and don't leave the shuttle.
There's some kind of plasma energy out on the surface. I'll be back as
soon as I can.

