TROI WOMAN WORF PICARD BYLETH RIKER LOQUEL CRUSHER DATA
keeping sure skilled operational bad woman senior chocolate care

[Shuttlebay]

PICARD: What's keeping them? 
(Worf and Riker enter) 
PICARD: Ah, you're just in time. They're about to disembark. 
(three males in very plain jumpsuits get out of the shuttle) 
PICARD: Ambassador Loquel, Ambassador Byleth. I'm Captain Picard.
Welcome on board the Enterprise. 
LOQUEL: It is our pleasure to be here, Captain. 
PICARD: It is an honour to be the site of the first cultural exchange
between the Iyaaran people and the Federation. 
BYLETH: (the tall one) The next seven days should prove most
illuminating. 
LOQUEL: Allow me to introduce Voval. He will be taking you back to our
homeworld. 
PICARD: How do you do. I'm looking forward very much to meeting with
the Premier of Iyar. There will be a reception held in your honour when
you will meet the rest of my senior staff. I, of course, shall be on my
way to your home world, but I shall be leaving you in the safe hands of
my most experienced officers. Lieutenant Worf, of the Klingon Empire,
is my head of Security. He will be in charge of your safety while
you're on board. Counsellor Deanna Troi of the planet Betazed will be
your personal liaison office, Ambassador Loquel. 
TROI: Ambassador, it's an honour to meet you. Would you like to see
your quarters before we attend the reception? 
LOQUEL: Please. 
(Troi and Loquel leave) 
PICARD: Ambassador Byleth, this is Commander William Riker, my First
Office, from the planet Earth. He has been assigned to you. 
BYLETH: (walks up to Worf) I want this one. 
PICARD: Well, Commander Riker is a skilled diplomat, with wide
experience in inter-species contact. 
BYLETH: I'm sure, I'm sure. But I have decided. I want this Lieutenant
Worf. 
PICARD: Well, that will be just fine. Mister Worf? 
WORF: Yes. Yes Ambassador, it would be my pleasure to 
BYLETH: Yes, yes. Enough of that. Show me to my quarters. 
WORF: This way. 
(Worf and Byleth leave) 
PICARD: Good luck. 
[Ten Forward]

RIKER: Do you think there's enough food here, Data?
(to woman) Good evening. 
WOMAN: Good evening. 
(at the buffet table) 
TROI: So first thing tomorrow, I thought I'd take you on a tour of the
operational centres and the residential decks of the ship. Then we
could spend some time discussing the cultural underpinnings of your
society. 
LOQUEL: Are you going to eat? 
TROI: Excuse me? 
LOQUEL: You have no food on your plate. Are you going to eat? 
TROI: Oh, well, actually, I was waiting until we got to the desserts. 
LOQUEL: Desserts? What is this? 
TROI: It's something we eat after the main course. It's usually very
sweet, it's usually very bad for you. We eat it purely for pleasure. If
you ask me, it's the best part of any meal. 
LOQUEL: My people eat only for nourishment. 
TROI: Oh, well, let me introduce you to some of my favourites. This is
peach cobbler with whipped cream. Tarvokian powder cake. And this is my
favourite. Ktarian chocolate puff. I don't know exactly what's inside,
but I think it's made with seventeen varieties of chocolate. 
(Troi gives Loquel a sample) 
LOQUEL: That is, that is 
TROI: Delicious? 
LOQUEL: Delicious. 
TROI: Ambassador, I think we're going to get along very well. Shall we?

(Loquel takes his loaded plate and a tray of small desserts with him to
a table) 
(meanwhile, at another table, Worf and Crusher eat with Byleth) 
BYLETH: This is unacceptable. 
WORF: I am sorry you do not care for our 
BYLETH: Bring me new food. I require a higher protein and enzymatic
content. 
CRUSHER: Ambassador 
BYLETH: Yes. 
CRUSHER: It's the custom usually in a situation like this, for us to
serve ourselves. It's called a buffet, and 
BYLETH: Bring me new food. 
CRUSHER: Ambassador 
WORF: Doctor, it is all right. I am happy to bring more food. 
(Worf slices a meat joint as if he wishes it were Byleth) 
DATA: How is your diplomatic assignment progressing? 
WORF: Fine. 
DATA: I have heard that in moments of diplomatic tension, it is often
helpful to find elements of commonality. 
WORF: Ambassador Byleth is demanding, temperamental and rude. 
DATA: You share all of those qualities in abundance. Perhaps you should
try to build on your similarities. 
(Worf tenses, then gazes at the sharp knife in his hand)

