TROI WORF PICARD BYLETH RIKER LOQUEL

  [Worf's
quarters]

(Worf is struggling with his dress uniform sash
when the doorbell rings) 
WORF: Enter. Enter. 
RIKER: Worf, they're going to be here any minute. 
WORF: I am having problems. 
RIKER: If I didn't know you better, I'd say that you were
procrastinating. 
WORF: Klingons do not procrastinate. It is a tactical delay. 
RIKER: You have spend about five minutes greeting the Iyaarans maybe an
hour making small talk at this reception. I'm the one who has to escort
them around the ship for the next three days. 
WORF: I do not enjoy these diplomatic situations. 
RIKER: It's all part of being in Starfleet. There. 
WORF: I do not see why it is necessary to wear these ridiculous
uniforms. 
RIKER: Protocol. 
WORF: They look like dresses. 
RIKER: That is an incredibly outmoded and sexist attitude. I'm
surprised at you. Besides, you look good in a dress.

[Shuttlebay]

PICARD: What's keeping them? 
(Worf and Riker enter) 
PICARD: Ah, you're just in time. They're about to disembark. 
(three males in very plain jumpsuits get out of the shuttle) 
PICARD: Ambassador Loquel, Ambassador Byleth. I'm Captain Picard.
Welcome on board the Enterprise. 
LOQUEL: It is our pleasure to be here, Captain. 
PICARD: It is an honour to be the site of the first cultural exchange
between the Iyaaran people and the Federation. 
BYLETH: (the tall one) The next seven days should prove most
illuminating. 
LOQUEL: Allow me to introduce Voval. He will be taking you back to our
homeworld. 
PICARD: How do you do. I'm looking forward very much to meeting with
the Premier of Iyar. There will be a reception held in your honour when
you will meet the rest of my senior staff. I, of course, shall be on my
way to your home world, but I shall be leaving you in the safe hands of
my most experienced officers. Lieutenant Worf, of the Klingon Empire,
is my head of Security. He will be in charge of your safety while
you're on board. Counsellor Deanna Troi of the planet Betazed will be
your personal liaison office, Ambassador Loquel. 
TROI: Ambassador, it's an honour to meet you. Would you like to see
your quarters before we attend the reception? 
LOQUEL: Please. 
(Troi and Loquel leave) 
PICARD: Ambassador Byleth, this is Commander William Riker, my First
Office, from the planet Earth. He has been assigned to you. 
BYLETH: (walks up to Worf) I want this one. 
PICARD: Well, Commander Riker is a skilled diplomat, with wide
experience in inter-species contact. 
BYLETH: I'm sure, I'm sure. But I have decided. I want this Lieutenant
Worf. 
PICARD: Well, that will be just fine. Mister Worf? 
WORF: Yes. Yes Ambassador, it would be my pleasure to 
BYLETH: Yes, yes. Enough of that. Show me to my quarters. 
WORF: This way. 
(Worf and Byleth leave) 
PICARD: Good luck. 
