RIKER WORF PICARD BYLETH TROI VOICE [OC] LOQUEL ANNA VOVAL
meant easily head afraid depend coltayin crazy better pulls

[Freighter]

(Picard is walking around in some discomfort) 
ANNA: What are you doing? You should be in bed. 
PICARD: Anna, why was this door locked from the outside? 
ANNA: For your protection. 
PICARD: From what? 
ANNA: There are dangerous animals here. Come sit down. Look, I have the
comm. panel. 
PICARD: Good. 
ANNA: It wasn't easy. I had to force it out of the equipment bay. 
PICARD: If we can boost the output field, I might be able to send a
distress signal.
Something seems to be wrong with it. 
ANNA: What's the matter? 
PICARD: This transmitter module has been totally destroyed. How could
that happen? It looks as though it's been hit by a phaser blast. 
ANNA: I used a phaser to cut it free. Maybe I accidentally damaged it.
You can fix it, can't you? 
PICARD: No. 
ANNA: I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. 
PICARD: Anna, we will get out of here. It's not going to be easy, but
we need to work together. 
ANNA: I can't believe I did that. That I damaged our only chance. I've
waited for so long. At first, I had hoped that I'd be rescued. I kept
setting up microfusion flares and looking up at the sky and waiting for
someone to come and take me away. But it never happened. There's a
precipice near here. I used to go there and stare down at the gorge and
I'd think, I can just step over the edge and end it all.
And then I realised it was the hope that was driving me crazy, that I
had to accept that I would never get out of here. 
PICARD: Anna, no matter how long it takes, we will get out of here. 
ANNA: I knew from the moment I saw you that you were here to save me.
I'll do anything you want. Just don't leave me. I don't ever want to be
alone again. 
(Anna kisses Picard) 
ANNA: I love you. 
(later, Picard is working on some equipment when Anna comes in) 
ANNA: I found some coltayin roots. They're not much to look at but they
taste good. What are you doing? You're going to hurt yourself. 
PICARD: No, no, no, it's all right. I'm just trying to dislodge this
power cell. Nearly got it. There. No, no, it's all right. The energy
relays are corroded but I think it should be able to hold one more
charge. If I can regenerate this, then I may be able to reactivate the
shuttlecraft's engines. 
ANNA: Well, I'd say this is cause for celebration. I may still have
some Terellian spices around here, and I'll boil these roots and make
us a nice broth. 
PICARD: That sounds delightful. 
ANNA: If we ever do get out of here, will you promise to show me this
starship of yours? This Enterprise? 
PICARD: Of course. Anna, would you pass me that tricorder, I'm going to
try to repair these energy relays. 
ANNA: I meant what I said before. I do love you. 
PICARD: Anna, I'm grateful to you for saving my life, and I think that
you are a warm and compassionate person, and I feel a great sympathy
for what you've been through alone here on this planet, but I don't
think that you can really be in love with me. 
ANNA: How can you say that? Of course I love you. 
PICARD: No, I'm the first person you've seen in seven years. I'm
bringing you the hope of leaving this place. Don't you think that you
could possibly be just a little confused right now? 
ANNA: So you're not attracted to me. 
PICARD: I think that's a little premature. We hardly know anything
about each other. 
ANNA: I understand, and I'm sorry if I made you uncomfortable. 
PICARD: No harm done. It's going to take at least a couple of hours to
charge this cell. Then as soon as it's done, we should get it over to
the shuttle immediately. This cell casing is already beginning to break
down. Anna, we are going to get out of here.

[Riker's quarters]

(Loquel is eating chocolates and the game is five
card draw) 
RIKER: The bet is ten. That's to you, Ambassador. 
LOQUEL: I will see the bet, and raise ten. 
TROI: I'm in for twenty. 
WORF: (rearranging his cards) I'm in. And I raise twenty. 
BYLETH: You are (thinks) bluffing. 
(Byleth takes some chips from Worf's pile and throws them into the pot)

WORF: Excuse me, Ambassador. Those are my chips. 
BYLETH: You are in error. Those chips are mine. 
WORF: I saw you take two chips from my pile. 
BYLETH: You would dare to accuse me of stealing? 
WORF: Yes. 
BYLETH: You are lying because you are losing the game. 
WORF: I am losing because you've been cheating all along! 
RIKER: Wait a minute. Calm down. 
BYLETH: (standing) Even if I were cheating, how would a plodding animal
like you know it? 
WORF: You are an insulting, pompous fool, and if you were not an
Ambassador, I would disembowel you right here! 
BYLETH: Do not let my title inhibit you, Klingon! 
(Byleth prods Worf in the chest, so Worf grabs his arm and throws him
across the room) 
BYLETH: Yes. Good. 
(Byleth kicks Worf in the chest and they get into a proper fight.
Loquel keeps eating, unconcerned. Worf
head-butts Byleth and Riker grabs him) 
RIKER: Stop, Mister Worf! That is an order! 
BYLETH: Wonderful. Very good! Thank you. Lieutenant Worf. I think I
understand now. That was a very effective demonstration. 
WORF: What? 
BYLETH: If you'll excuse me, I would like to document this experience.

[Freighter]

PICARD: The power cell is ready. We should take it
over to the shuttle. 
ANNA: No. We can't leave right now. 
PICARD: Why not? 
ANNA: The plasma storms are too strong. It's dangerous. Wait a few
hours, then we can go. 
PICARD: We don't have a few hours. I told you, this cell is already
beginning to degenerate. 
ANNA: Jean-Luc, it's a difficult journey. The restriction field will
make it very hard for you to walk. 
PICARD: I'm feeling very much better. in fact, I don't intend to go on
using this any longer. 
ANNA: No! You can't remove it yet. No! 
(Picard pulls the device off his side) 
PICARD: There's no pain. It would appear I don't have any broken ribs
after all. 
ANNA: Jean-Luc. 
PICARD: What's going on? Why are you trying to keep me here? 
ANNA: Please, I love you. 
PICARD: Why are you keeping me locked in this freighter? You say that
there are wild animals out there but I haven't heard or seen a single
one of them. 
ANNA: Jean-Luc. 
PICARD: What about that comm. panel? You said you damaged it when you
were cutting it out of the shuttle. Did you? You see, I find it hard to
believe that you would destroy the one piece of equipment that could
get you out of here after seven years. And what was this really for? To
keep me immobilised? 
ANNA: I was afraid. I didn't want you to leave me. 
PICARD: So it was necessary to keep me captive? 
ANNA: I was scared. I wanted you to stay, to love me. 
PICARD: I'm going to go look for the shuttle myself. 
ANNA: No. 
(she kisses him) 
PICARD: Anna! 
ANNA: Don't fight me. 
PICARD: Anna, no! 
(she throws him onto the floor and straddles him) 
ANNA: You should love me now. We're together. We depend on each other.
I know more about you. Love me. 
PICARD: Anna, stop! 
ANNA: I've failed. You don't love me. It's over. 
PICARD: Anna. (picks up the pendant) Anna! Anna, where are you going? 
(Anna leaves, locking the door. Picard finds a crowbar and tries to
force it when) 
VOICE [OC]: Hello! Is anyone in there? 
PICARD: Yes! Inside here! 
VOICE [OC]: Hello! 
PICARD: Inside the freighter! The door is on the opposite side! (bangs
on the door) Over here! The door's over here! 
(the door opens and Voval enters without his decoration) 
PICARD: Voval! I thought you were dead. 
VOVAL: Dead? 
PICARD: Yes. There's a woman living here. She told me that she'd been
to the shuttle. She said that she saw you dead. 
VOVAL: Yes. That is understandable. When my species is injured, our
metabolic rate slows until our body can heal itself. This state could
easily be mistaken for death. 
PICARD: I see. 
VOVAL: When you did not return to the shuttle I intended to track you.
Surface conditions made it very difficult. So cold. I saw someone
running away from here. Was it the woman? 
PICARD: Yes. 
VOVAL: Why did she leave the shelter? 
PICARD: She was upset. 
VOVAL: Do you think she may harm herself? There's a dangerous precipice
near here. She was headed in that direction 
PICARD: It's possible. 
VOVAL: Then we should go find her. 
PICARD: You stay here. Keep warm. I'll go and look for her. 
VOVAL: We will go together.

