BOY TROI WORF PICARD RIKER LOQUEL ANNA

[Corridor]

TROI: This deck is devoted mainly to stellar
cartography, biological research, and astrophysics. We have over a
thousand people on board 
LOQUEL: Are you sure you don't want some of this, this papalla juice? 
TROI: No, thank you. I'm still recovering from all those desserts last
night. 
LOQUEL: Are you sure? It is very delicious. 
TROI: I'm sure. 
LOQUEL: Please, please. You've been so kind. Please. 
(Troi takes the smallest possible sip) 
TROI: Yum. Next we're going to go to deck eight, which is interesting
because it's not really finished. It's sort of a multi-purpose deck.
Sometimes when we need an extra lab or. Ambassador? 
(Troi discovers Loquel is not with her, and goes back to find him
examining a young boy) 
LOQUEL: What is this? 
TROI: It's a child. 
LOQUEL: Child? 
TROI: Children are our offspring. They're our young. They grow into
adults over a period of many years. They grow into beings like us. 
LOQUEL: Offspring. 
TROI: Ambassador, I'm curious. Now does your species procreate? 
LOQUEL: Post-cellular compounding. We emerge from the natal pod fully
grown. 
TROI: I see. 
LOQUEL: Do you have a name? 
BOY: Eric 
LOQUEL: Eric. Do you like dessert? 
(Eric nods, so Loquel addresses his mother) 
LOQUEL: May I give Eric some dessert? 
TROI: That sounds like a wonderful idea. Come on, Eric. 
[Freighter]

(Picard wakes on a pile of cushions near a blazing
fire. There is a device on his abdomen and he is in pain) 
PICARD: Is someone there? Who's there? 
(there is a woman on the other side of the fire. She comes over.) 
PICARD: What do you want? Who are you? Who are you? 
ANNA: Shh. 
PICARD: No, wait. Stop. There was someone else in the shuttlecraft with
me. The pilot, he's injured. He needs your help. 
ANNA: He's dead. 
(Anna leaves) 
(later, Anna has returned and is sitting by the fire. She is wearing a
pendant with a similar design to a device Voval was wearing) 
PICARD: Hello. (sees a bowl by his elbow) Smells good. Thank you. This
is a Terellian cargo freighter, isn't it? Is this your ship? Are you
one of the crew? 
ANNA: No. I was a passenger. We crashed. 
PICARD: How many people survived? Were you the only one? Well, you're
certainly not a Terellian, unless you've lost two of your arms. What's
your name? I'm Jean-Luc Picard. I'm a Starfleet officer. 
ANNA: Anna. 
PICARD: Anna, are there other people on this planet? How long have you
been here? 
ANNA: I don't know. You can't see the sun from here. I've lost track of
all time. 
PICARD: What was the date when you crashed? 
ANNA: Stardate 40812. 
PICARD: Seven years! 
ANNA: Years? 
PICARD: Anna, Anna. wait a minute. 
ANNA: Seven years? I thought one, maybe two. How could it be seven? 
PICARD: Anna, Anna, listen to me. Listen. On the shuttle, there is a
lot of equipment that will have survived the crash. We can use it to
contact Starfleet. They'll send a ship for us. We can leave. 
ANNA: Leave? 
PICARD: Yes. Both of us. Now, if you will help me to get to the
shuttle. Ow.
ANNA: Don't move. it's bad. 
PICARD: Don't worry, I won't move. 
ANNA: You have three broken ribs. The restrictor device will hold the
bones in place, let them 
PICARD: Let them knit? 
ANNA: It's been so long since I talked to anyone. I used to talk to
myself, but then I thought it might mean that I was crazy, so I stopped
talking. It'll be a while before you can walk. 
PICARD: Perhaps you could go to the shuttle bring the equipment back
here. 
ANNA: I can do that. 
PICARD: Good. Go into the cockpit, and look for a small comm. panel in
the instrument array. See if you can remove it. Bring it back here. 
ANNA: Don't move. I'll be back. 
[Observation lounge]

WORF: I am going to kill him! With my bare hands, I
will take him by the throat and I will rip out his oesophagus 
RIKER: Worf. 
WORF: I have failed in my mission, Commander. I am clearly a bad
diplomat. For the sake of the ship and the Federation, I request
reassignment. 
RIKER: Denied. 
WORF: Commander, these Iyaarans are arrogant, irritating. They cannot
be reasoned with! 
TROI: Ambassador Loquel's quite pleasant. I will admit though, he's a
little unusual. 
RIKER: What have you been able to find out about him so far? 
TROI: He seems preoccupied with recreation. I've spent more time in Ten
Forward in the last two days than I have in the past two months. And
he's obsessed with food. Especially chocolate. 
RIKER: You must be in heaven. 
TROI: To be honest, he's testing even my limits. 
WORF: You see? You see? They are insane! 
TROI: Worf, you've been very patient with Ambassador Byleth, and that's
good. But maybe it's time to let him know that some behaviour is
unacceptable to us. I think it's all right to suggest limits for the
Ambassador. 
WORF: Bah. 
RIKER: Maybe we should loosen things up a little bit, meet in a less
official capacity. How about a friendly game of poker?

