RIKER WORF PICARD BYLETH TROI LOQUEL VOICE ANNA VOVAL

[Riker's quarters]

(Loquel is eating chocolates and the game is five
card draw) 
RIKER: The bet is ten. That's to you, Ambassador. 
LOQUEL: I will see the bet, and raise ten. 
TROI: I'm in for twenty. 
WORF: (rearranging his cards) I'm in. And I raise twenty. 
BYLETH: You are (thinks) bluffing. 
(Byleth takes some chips from Worf's pile and throws them into the pot)

WORF: Excuse me, Ambassador. Those are my chips. 
BYLETH: You are in error. Those chips are mine. 
WORF: I saw you take two chips from my pile. 
BYLETH: You would dare to accuse me of stealing? 
WORF: Yes. 
BYLETH: You are lying because you are losing the game. 
WORF: I am losing because you've been cheating all along! 
RIKER: Wait a minute. Calm down. 
BYLETH: (standing) Even if I were cheating, how would a plodding animal
like you know it? 
WORF: You are an insulting, pompous fool, and if you were not an
Ambassador, I would disembowel you right here! 
BYLETH: Do not let my title inhibit you, Klingon! 
(Byleth prods Worf in the chest, so Worf grabs his arm and throws him
across the room) 
BYLETH: Yes. Good. 
(Byleth kicks Worf in the chest and they get into a proper fight.
Loquel keeps eating, unconcerned. Worf
head-butts Byleth and Riker grabs him) 
RIKER: Stop, Mister Worf! That is an order! 
BYLETH: Wonderful. Very good! Thank you. Lieutenant Worf. I think I
understand now. That was a very effective demonstration. 
WORF: What? 
BYLETH: If you'll excuse me, I would like to document this experience.

[Freighter]

PICARD: The power cell is ready. We should take it
over to the shuttle. 
ANNA: No. We can't leave right now. 
PICARD: Why not? 
ANNA: The plasma storms are too strong. It's dangerous. Wait a few
hours, then we can go. 
PICARD: We don't have a few hours. I told you, this cell is already
beginning to degenerate. 
ANNA: Jean-Luc, it's a difficult journey. The restriction field will
make it very hard for you to walk. 
PICARD: I'm feeling very much better. in fact, I don't intend to go on
using this any longer. 
ANNA: No! You can't remove it yet. No! 
(Picard pulls the device off his side) 
PICARD: There's no pain. It would appear I don't have any broken ribs
after all. 
ANNA: Jean-Luc. 
PICARD: What's going on? Why are you trying to keep me here? 
ANNA: Please, I love you. 
PICARD: Why are you keeping me locked in this freighter? You say that
there are wild animals out there but I haven't heard or seen a single
one of them. 
ANNA: Jean-Luc. 
PICARD: What about that comm. panel? You said you damaged it when you
were cutting it out of the shuttle. Did you? You see, I find it hard to
believe that you would destroy the one piece of equipment that could
get you out of here after seven years. And what was this really for? To
keep me immobilised? 
ANNA: I was afraid. I didn't want you to leave me. 
PICARD: So it was necessary to keep me captive? 
ANNA: I was scared. I wanted you to stay, to love me. 
PICARD: I'm going to go look for the shuttle myself. 
ANNA: No. 
(she kisses him) 
PICARD: Anna! 
ANNA: Don't fight me. 
PICARD: Anna, no! 
(she throws him onto the floor and straddles him) 
ANNA: You should love me now. We're together. We depend on each other.
I know more about you. Love me. 
PICARD: Anna, stop! 
ANNA: I've failed. You don't love me. It's over. 
PICARD: Anna. (picks up the pendant) Anna! Anna, where are you going? 
(Anna leaves, locking the door. Picard finds a crowbar and tries to
force it when) 
VOICE [OC]: Hello! Is anyone in there? 
PICARD: Yes! Inside here! 
VOICE [OC]: Hello! 
PICARD: Inside the freighter! The door is on the opposite side! (bangs
on the door) Over here! The door's over here! 
(the door opens and Voval enters without his decoration) 
PICARD: Voval! I thought you were dead. 
VOVAL: Dead? 
PICARD: Yes. There's a woman living here. She told me that she'd been
to the shuttle. She said that she saw you dead. 
VOVAL: Yes. That is understandable. When my species is injured, our
metabolic rate slows until our body can heal itself. This state could
easily be mistaken for death. 
PICARD: I see. 
VOVAL: When you did not return to the shuttle I intended to track you.
Surface conditions made it very difficult. So cold. I saw someone
running away from here. Was it the woman? 
PICARD: Yes. 
VOVAL: Why did she leave the shelter? 
PICARD: She was upset. 
VOVAL: Do you think she may harm herself? There's a dangerous precipice
near here. She was headed in that direction 
PICARD: It's possible. 
VOVAL: Then we should go find her. 
PICARD: You stay here. Keep warm. I'll go and look for her. 
VOVAL: We will go together.

[Precipice]

(clouds drift just below the edge of the drop) 
PICARD: Anna! Anna! 
VOVAL: Captain, this ridge extends for a kilometre in either direction.

PICARD: We can search it twice as fast if we separate. 
(so they head off in opposite directions) 
PICARD: Anna! Anna! 
(Picard sees Anna standing by the edge in the other direction) 
PICARD: Anna, Anna. 
ANNA: Stay away from me. 
PICARD: You don't have to do this. I found Voval, the shuttle pilot,
he's still alive. He can help us get away from here. 
ANNA: I don't care. I'll jump unless you promise to love me. 
PICARD: No. No, I won't promise. You have been manipulating me, haven't
you? 
ANNA: Jean-Luc, what are you saying? 
PICARD: The necklace. It broke. I saw it in the cargo freighter, on the
floor by the fire. I left it there. Now it's around your neck. It's
whole. How? 
ANNA: Tell me you love me. I must know. 
PICARD: Where's Voval? Isn't it convenient that he arrived moments
after you left? That he insisted that I come here to look for you? That
I find you, here on the ledge, ready to jump? That's very good timing,
don't you think? 
ANNA: Jean-Luc. 
PICARD: Are you and Voval working together? He's the only one who could
have brought you the necklace. 
ANNA: Tell me about your love or I'll jump! 
PICARD: Go ahead. Why don't you do it? It's a long way down. Must be
two hundred metres. You'd die instantly, if that's what you want. But I
don't think that it really is. 
(Anna touches her pendent and turns into Voval) 
VOVAL: I have failed. 
PICARD: Failed? Voval, what is going on? 
VOVAL: My name is Ambassador Voval. 
PICARD: Ambassador? 
VOVAL: My mission was to study human intimacy, specifically the concept
you call love. In our study of your culture, we did not understand
certain concepts. So we sent three representatives to study them, to
experience them. 
PICARD: But why did you believe that bringing me here would give you a
better understanding of love? 
VOVAL: Several years ago, we discovered the remains of the Terellian
freighter on this planet. The ship contained logs made by a single
survivor, a human woman. That was our first contact with human culture.
The woman lived alone here for seven years until another human crashed
on this planet. A human male. 
PICARD: And the man was injured and she nursed him back to health, and
they fell in love. 
VOVAL: In the logs, she described many concepts we found difficult to
understand. Pleasure, antagonism, love. These were alien to us. We
wished to experience them for ourselves. Ambassador Loquel was sent to
experience pleasure. Byleth was sent to experience antagonism. And I
was sent to experience love. Was this wrong? 
PICARD: Let me just say that we would not take such a direct approach.
Ambassador, I have tell you that in my culture, what you have done
would be considered a crime. 
VOVAL: Crime? 
PICARD: Well, we'll can talk about it later. For now, I think we should
get off this planet. Am I in assuming the damage the shuttle is not as
bad as it seems? 
VOVAL: That is correct. We can leave at any time. 
PICARD: I think that now would be quite nice. 
