PICARD TROI RIKER WORF ANNA

[Freighter]

(Picard wakes on a pile of cushions near a blazing
fire. There is a device on his abdomen and he is in pain) 
PICARD: Is someone there? Who's there? 
(there is a woman on the other side of the fire. She comes over.) 
PICARD: What do you want? Who are you? Who are you? 
ANNA: Shh. 
PICARD: No, wait. Stop. There was someone else in the shuttlecraft with
me. The pilot, he's injured. He needs your help. 
ANNA: He's dead. 
(Anna leaves) 
(later, Anna has returned and is sitting by the fire. She is wearing a
pendant with a similar design to a device Voval was wearing) 
PICARD: Hello. (sees a bowl by his elbow) Smells good. Thank you. This
is a Terellian cargo freighter, isn't it? Is this your ship? Are you
one of the crew? 
ANNA: No. I was a passenger. We crashed. 
PICARD: How many people survived? Were you the only one? Well, you're
certainly not a Terellian, unless you've lost two of your arms. What's
your name? I'm Jean-Luc Picard. I'm a Starfleet officer. 
ANNA: Anna. 
PICARD: Anna, are there other people on this planet? How long have you
been here? 
ANNA: I don't know. You can't see the sun from here. I've lost track of
all time. 
PICARD: What was the date when you crashed? 
ANNA: Stardate 40812. 
PICARD: Seven years! 
ANNA: Years? 
PICARD: Anna, Anna. wait a minute. 
ANNA: Seven years? I thought one, maybe two. How could it be seven? 
PICARD: Anna, Anna, listen to me. Listen. On the shuttle, there is a
lot of equipment that will have survived the crash. We can use it to
contact Starfleet. They'll send a ship for us. We can leave. 
ANNA: Leave? 
PICARD: Yes. Both of us. Now, if you will help me to get to the
shuttle. Ow.
ANNA: Don't move. it's bad. 
PICARD: Don't worry, I won't move. 
ANNA: You have three broken ribs. The restrictor device will hold the
bones in place, let them 
PICARD: Let them knit? 
ANNA: It's been so long since I talked to anyone. I used to talk to
myself, but then I thought it might mean that I was crazy, so I stopped
talking. It'll be a while before you can walk. 
PICARD: Perhaps you could go to the shuttle bring the equipment back
here. 
ANNA: I can do that. 
PICARD: Good. Go into the cockpit, and look for a small comm. panel in
the instrument array. See if you can remove it. Bring it back here. 
ANNA: Don't move. I'll be back. 
[Observation lounge]

WORF: I am going to kill him! With my bare hands, I
will take him by the throat and I will rip out his oesophagus 
RIKER: Worf. 
WORF: I have failed in my mission, Commander. I am clearly a bad
diplomat. For the sake of the ship and the Federation, I request
reassignment. 
RIKER: Denied. 
WORF: Commander, these Iyaarans are arrogant, irritating. They cannot
be reasoned with! 
TROI: Ambassador Loquel's quite pleasant. I will admit though, he's a
little unusual. 
RIKER: What have you been able to find out about him so far? 
TROI: He seems preoccupied with recreation. I've spent more time in Ten
Forward in the last two days than I have in the past two months. And
he's obsessed with food. Especially chocolate. 
RIKER: You must be in heaven. 
TROI: To be honest, he's testing even my limits. 
WORF: You see? You see? They are insane! 
TROI: Worf, you've been very patient with Ambassador Byleth, and that's
good. But maybe it's time to let him know that some behaviour is
unacceptable to us. I think it's all right to suggest limits for the
Ambassador. 
WORF: Bah. 
RIKER: Maybe we should loosen things up a little bit, meet in a less
official capacity. How about a friendly game of poker?

[Freighter]

(Picard is walking around in some discomfort) 
ANNA: What are you doing? You should be in bed. 
PICARD: Anna, why was this door locked from the outside? 
ANNA: For your protection. 
PICARD: From what? 
ANNA: There are dangerous animals here. Come sit down. Look, I have the
comm. panel. 
PICARD: Good. 
ANNA: It wasn't easy. I had to force it out of the equipment bay. 
PICARD: If we can boost the output field, I might be able to send a
distress signal.
Something seems to be wrong with it. 
ANNA: What's the matter? 
PICARD: This transmitter module has been totally destroyed. How could
that happen? It looks as though it's been hit by a phaser blast. 
ANNA: I used a phaser to cut it free. Maybe I accidentally damaged it.
You can fix it, can't you? 
PICARD: No. 
ANNA: I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. 
PICARD: Anna, we will get out of here. It's not going to be easy, but
we need to work together. 
ANNA: I can't believe I did that. That I damaged our only chance. I've
waited for so long. At first, I had hoped that I'd be rescued. I kept
setting up microfusion flares and looking up at the sky and waiting for
someone to come and take me away. But it never happened. There's a
precipice near here. I used to go there and stare down at the gorge and
I'd think, I can just step over the edge and end it all.
And then I realised it was the hope that was driving me crazy, that I
had to accept that I would never get out of here. 
PICARD: Anna, no matter how long it takes, we will get out of here. 
ANNA: I knew from the moment I saw you that you were here to save me.
I'll do anything you want. Just don't leave me. I don't ever want to be
alone again. 
(Anna kisses Picard) 
ANNA: I love you. 
(later, Picard is working on some equipment when Anna comes in) 
ANNA: I found some coltayin roots. They're not much to look at but they
taste good. What are you doing? You're going to hurt yourself. 
PICARD: No, no, no, it's all right. I'm just trying to dislodge this
power cell. Nearly got it. There. No, no, it's all right. The energy
relays are corroded but I think it should be able to hold one more
charge. If I can regenerate this, then I may be able to reactivate the
shuttlecraft's engines. 
ANNA: Well, I'd say this is cause for celebration. I may still have
some Terellian spices around here, and I'll boil these roots and make
us a nice broth. 
PICARD: That sounds delightful. 
ANNA: If we ever do get out of here, will you promise to show me this
starship of yours? This Enterprise? 
PICARD: Of course. Anna, would you pass me that tricorder, I'm going to
try to repair these energy relays. 
ANNA: I meant what I said before. I do love you. 
PICARD: Anna, I'm grateful to you for saving my life, and I think that
you are a warm and compassionate person, and I feel a great sympathy
for what you've been through alone here on this planet, but I don't
think that you can really be in love with me. 
ANNA: How can you say that? Of course I love you. 
PICARD: No, I'm the first person you've seen in seven years. I'm
bringing you the hope of leaving this place. Don't you think that you
could possibly be just a little confused right now? 
ANNA: So you're not attracted to me. 
PICARD: I think that's a little premature. We hardly know anything
about each other. 
ANNA: I understand, and I'm sorry if I made you uncomfortable. 
PICARD: No harm done. It's going to take at least a couple of hours to
charge this cell. Then as soon as it's done, we should get it over to
the shuttle immediately. This cell casing is already beginning to break
down. Anna, we are going to get out of here.

