SILVA DATA LAFORGE DATA [OC]
short consider increasingly ll alive predict got close help

[Laboratory]

(Geordi activates the interface monitors when the
doors open) 
DATA: I suspected you would attempt to operate the interface alone. 
LAFORGE: Did you? 
DATA: I am familiar enough with your behaviour patterns to predict
certain decisions. 
LAFORGE: Well I guess you know me pretty well. 
DATA: You are disobeying the Captain. 
LAFORGE: I can't just sit back and do nothing when I know that my
mother might be down on that planet. 
DATA: I can not allow you to endanger your well-being. 
LAFORGE: Data, if I leave without knowing for sure, then I'll have to
live with that for the rest of my life, wondering if I left her to die.
I couldn't do that. That's why I've got to do this. 
DATA: I could have you confined to quarters for the duration of the
mission. 
LAFORGE: If that's what you need to do, Data, then do it. Because
nothing short of that is going to stop me from trying to save my
mother. 
(Data goes to the interface monitor) 
LAFORGE: What are you doing? 
DATA: I will monitor the interface and attempt to keep you safe. I can
not have you confined to quarters for something you have not yet done. 
LAFORGE: You know we could both get in a lot of trouble for this. 
DATA: There is a high degree of probability that you are correct. 
LAFORGE: Thanks, Data. 
DATA: However, I do have a request. 
LAFORGE: Yeah? What's that? 
DATA: I would ask you to consider the possibility that what you see is
not real. 
LAFORGE: I will. I promise. 
DATA: I am establishing the interface. 
[Raman Auxiliary control]

LAFORGE: Mom? Mom? 
SILVA: Hello, Geordi. 
LAFORGE: Mom, how did you get here? 
SILVA: I'm not really with you, Geordi. I'm on my ship, on the surface.
We were pulled into a warp funnel. 
LAFORGE: That's just what I thought. How are we communicating? 
SILVA: We found a way to send a subspace signal that could cut through
the atmospheric interference. 
DATA [OC]: Geordi, are you seeing the image of your mother? 
LAFORGE: Yes, and she's just 
[Laboratory]

LAFORGE: Confirmed everything I've been saying. 
DATA: I am reading unusual subspace energy in your vicinity, similar to
what the probe sensor recorded the first time you encountered your
mother. 
LAFORGE: That's how she's communicating with me. It's the only kind of
signal they could send that could cut through the interference.

[Raman Auxiliary control]

SILVA: We need your help. 
LAFORGE: I've been thinking about this. I'm going to take the Raman
into a low stationary orbit and initiate an inverse warp cascade. 
SILVA: Why? 
LAFORGE: The subspace distortion from the cascade should reverse the
warp funnel. Your ship will end up right back where it started.

[Laboratory]

DATA: Geordi, the atmosphere becomes increasingly
turbulent the farther down you go. You may not be able to bring the
Raman close enough to the Hera before being destroyed. 
LAFORGE: I have to try, Data.

[Raman Auxiliary control]

SILVA: We're running out of time. 
LAFORGE: Shields back online. We're starting our descent. Thank God. 
SILVA: Thank God? 
LAFORGE: That you're alive. That I was right about all of this. I can't
wait to call Dad. He and Ariana had given up. 
SILVA: We're going home. 
LAFORGE: Well, eventually, yeah. Data, everything's fading in and out.

