SILVA DATA LAFORGE RIKER DATA [OC]
request stop stories allow coming activates stationary died really

[Engineering]

RIKER: We'll be in position to use the tractor beam
in less than an hour. 
LAFORGE: You didn't come all the way down here to tell me that. 
RIKER: No, I didn't. Geordi, I may have seemed a little harsh about the
situation aboard the Raman. I just don't like the idea of one of my
best officers putting himself in unnecessary danger. 
LAFORGE: I guess I feel like I should be the one to decide whether it's
unnecessary or not. 
RIKER: My mother died when I was a baby. All I have is pictures, and
the stories that my father used to tell me about her. I begged him to
tell those stories over and over. When I was five and I went to school,
I started to tell my new friends those same stories, pretending that
she was alive. Then I started believing that she was alive, that she'd
just gone away, that she was coming back. The teacher got wind of this,
and she and my father had this talk with me. They told me it was
important to accept the fact that my mother was dead and that she
wasn't coming back. And all the hoping in the world wouldn't make it
so. In my mind, that was the day that my mother actually died. I cried
all that night. But after that, it started feeling better. 
LAFORGE: Your mother was dead. There was proof. There was a body, and a
funeral. It was a reality. 
RIKER: Geordi. 
LAFORGE: If I could see a body, if there were wreckage, I could accept
it, but my mother has just disappeared. And now, there's a possibility
that she is alive. And I'm not going to quit. Not yet. 
[Laboratory]

(Geordi activates the interface monitors when the
doors open) 
DATA: I suspected you would attempt to operate the interface alone. 
LAFORGE: Did you? 
DATA: I am familiar enough with your behaviour patterns to predict
certain decisions. 
LAFORGE: Well I guess you know me pretty well. 
DATA: You are disobeying the Captain. 
LAFORGE: I can't just sit back and do nothing when I know that my
mother might be down on that planet. 
DATA: I can not allow you to endanger your well-being. 
LAFORGE: Data, if I leave without knowing for sure, then I'll have to
live with that for the rest of my life, wondering if I left her to die.
I couldn't do that. That's why I've got to do this. 
DATA: I could have you confined to quarters for the duration of the
mission. 
LAFORGE: If that's what you need to do, Data, then do it. Because
nothing short of that is going to stop me from trying to save my
mother. 
(Data goes to the interface monitor) 
LAFORGE: What are you doing? 
DATA: I will monitor the interface and attempt to keep you safe. I can
not have you confined to quarters for something you have not yet done. 
LAFORGE: You know we could both get in a lot of trouble for this. 
DATA: There is a high degree of probability that you are correct. 
LAFORGE: Thanks, Data. 
DATA: However, I do have a request. 
LAFORGE: Yeah? What's that? 
DATA: I would ask you to consider the possibility that what you see is
not real. 
LAFORGE: I will. I promise. 
DATA: I am establishing the interface. 
[Raman Auxiliary control]

LAFORGE: Mom? Mom? 
SILVA: Hello, Geordi. 
LAFORGE: Mom, how did you get here? 
SILVA: I'm not really with you, Geordi. I'm on my ship, on the surface.
We were pulled into a warp funnel. 
LAFORGE: That's just what I thought. How are we communicating? 
SILVA: We found a way to send a subspace signal that could cut through
the atmospheric interference. 
DATA [OC]: Geordi, are you seeing the image of your mother? 
LAFORGE: Yes, and she's just 
[Laboratory]

LAFORGE: Confirmed everything I've been saying. 
DATA: I am reading unusual subspace energy in your vicinity, similar to
what the probe sensor recorded the first time you encountered your
mother. 
LAFORGE: That's how she's communicating with me. It's the only kind of
signal they could send that could cut through the interference.

[Raman Auxiliary control]

SILVA: We need your help. 
LAFORGE: I've been thinking about this. I'm going to take the Raman
into a low stationary orbit and initiate an inverse warp cascade. 
SILVA: Why? 
LAFORGE: The subspace distortion from the cascade should reverse the
warp funnel. Your ship will end up right back where it started.

[Laboratory]

DATA: Geordi, the atmosphere becomes increasingly
turbulent the farther down you go. You may not be able to bring the
Raman close enough to the Hera before being destroyed. 
LAFORGE: I have to try, Data.

