TROI LAFORGE PICARD RIKER CRUSHER DATA

[Laboratory]

DATA: The cut off has been automatically activated.

CRUSHER: He's in neural shock.

[Sickbay]

CRUSHER: The sensory overload didn't cause any
permanent damage, but I wouldn't want to expose his brain to that kind
of stimulus again. 
PICARD: Is there any indication what caused this hallucination? 
CRUSHER: His brain functions are normal. 
LAFORGE: I told you, I wasn't hallucinating. 
DATA: Geordi, I have analysed the probe's sensor logs. There are no
record to indicate the presence of a living human on board the Raman. 
LAFORGE: Well she wasn't actually there. Her ship is down on the
surface. 
PICARD: So you believe that what you saw was some kind of transmission?

LAFORGE: Somehow she has managed to communicate with me. 
DATA: We have no indication of a transmission of any kind. 
LAFORGE: Maybe I'm the only one who can detect it because I'm
interfaced with the probe. 
DATA: The probe does allow Geordi to sense quantum fluctuations,
subspace anomalies, and other phenomenon not perceptible by any other
kind of sensors. 
PICARD: Granted, but how could he perceive his mother visually as if
she were standing there in the room? 
CRUSHER: I'm not sure, I do know that our brains weren't designed to
process the kind of sensory information Geordi was getting. When the
brain receives something it can't understand, it interprets the input
as best it can, sometimes as a smell or a sound, sometimes visually. 
LAFORGE: You see? 
CRUSHER: But Geordi, I'm not saying that your mother was really
communicating with you. I'm just trying to give you a reason why you
might've thought that she was. 
LAFORGE: Look, I'm telling you my mother's ship is trapped down there
and we've got to help them. 
PICARD: Geordi, the Hera's last reported location was three hundred
light years away. How could it end up here? 
DATA: If the Hera is on the surface, its hull could not possibly
withstand the pressure of the atmosphere. 
LAFORGE: Well at least let me go back down there just to be sure. 
CRUSHER: I do not recommend that he use the interface again. The
sensory overload almost killed you. 
LAFORGE: I'll be all right. 
PICARD: No, no, I'm sorry, Geordi. I'm not prepared to risk your life.
Data, find another way of salvaging the Raman. I want an alternate plan
in two hours. 
(Data leaves) 
PICARD: Geordi, I'd like you to talk to Counsellor Troi. She's
expecting you. 
LAFORGE: Aye, sir. 
[Troi's office]

TROI: What's your mother like, Geordi? 
LAFORGE: If you think I'm going to start talking about my childhood,
Counsellor, you're way off. 
TROI: That's not what I asked. 
LAFORGE: Well, she's, she's brilliant. Funny. She's incredibly
perceptive. She knows people. Knows what they're all about even before
they open their mouths. She's always been that way. She's a real good
judge of character. 
TROI: When was the last time you saw her? 
LAFORGE: About seven months ago, when she first took command of the
Hera. I went to a party she had for her crew. She wanted me to come
over and see her, but I was really busy at the time. I mean I suppose I
could have made the time to go and see her, but, you know, I just
didn't think that. I mean, you know, I, I didn't think that 
TROI: You didn't think it would be your last chance to see her. 
LAFORGE: That's not what I was going to say. 
TROI: I want to suggest something. Call it a theory, all right? 
LAFORGE: All right. 
TROI: You're worried about the disappearance of your mother, guilty
that you didn't see her when you had the chance, so you're unwilling to
consider that she might be dead. Your need to believe she's alive is so
strong that it manifests itself as a physical image. 
LAFORGE: But she told me she's trapped on that planet, that she's in
danger. Now, if this was some kind of wish fulfillment, don't you think
I'd be fantasising her safe and sound? 
TROI: No. Because that would be the end of your fantasy. You'd know it
wasn't true. The more involved and complicated and unending your story
is, the longer you can believe your mother's still alive. 
LAFORGE: Yeah, well, that's your theory, Counsellor. I've got one of my
own.

[Observation lounge]

DATA: I have been exploring the possibility of
using a tractor beam to pull the Raman from the atmosphere. However,
the high level of interference prevents a positive lock. 
RIKER: If we set up some sort of relay system? 
DATA: That is my conclusion as well, Commander. Two shuttlecraft,
staggered between the Enterprise and the Raman, with their shields
adjusted to refocus the tractor beam. 
PICARD: Can we get the shuttles close enough without danger? Mister La
Forge. 
LAFORGE: Sure. Yeah. As long as we keep them both above the
troposphere, that'll be all right. 
PICARD: Then in that case 
LAFORGE: But what about the Hera? We'd be leaving my mother and her
crew stranded on the planet. 
PICARD: Commander. 
LAFORGE: I've been thinking about this. A couple of weeks ago I got a
message from my mother. She said she had a new Chief Engineer who had
been experimenting with the warp drive. Now, I've seen the Hera. It
uses trionic initiators in the warp coil. They have a reputation
of strange side effects, especially when you start playing around with
them. 
DATA: There have been reports of warp bubbles and other subspace
deformations. 
LAFORGE: So, what if that's what happened? Not a warp bubble, but a
subspace funnel. 
RIKER: Connecting two points through subspace? 
LAFORGE: Well the Hera could have accidentally created a distortion
that emptied out right here at Marijne Seven. 
PICARD: Why here? 
LAFORGE: The Hera passed near this planet just ten days ago. There's an
awful lot of subspace disturbance in the atmosphere. The ship could've
accidentally picked up some residual traces that directed the funnel
right back here. 
RIKER: So the Hera's in one piece somewhere out there? 
LAFORGE: Maybe it's being surrounded by some kind of warp field, but
who knows for how long? 
PICARD: Mister La Forge, do you have any evidence to support this
hypothesis? 
LAFORGE: I did pick up some pretty strange subspace readings when I was
interfaced with the probe. 
RIKER: Geordi, that could have been anything. 
LAFORGE: Yeah, but I talked to her, Commander. She asked me to bring
the Raman closer to the planet. 
PICARD: Mister Data, is any of this possible? 
DATA: Yes, sir. However, it is highly unlikely. 
PICARD: How unlikely? 
DATA: Nearly impossible, sir. 
PICARD: let's proceed with the shuttle plan. 
LAFORGE: Captain 
PICARD: Dismissed. Mister La Forge. 
(Riker and Data leave) 
PICARD: I want you to know that I am not unsympathetic to what you're
going through. Your mother's disappearance is tragic, but I cannot risk
your safety on the basis of a dubious hypothesis. 
LAFORGE: Captain, if I'm right and there's just one chance in a million
that she's alive 
PICARD: I'm sorry, Geordi. My decision is made. 
LAFORGE: I understand, sir.

[Engineering]

RIKER: We'll be in position to use the tractor beam
in less than an hour. 
LAFORGE: You didn't come all the way down here to tell me that. 
RIKER: No, I didn't. Geordi, I may have seemed a little harsh about the
situation aboard the Raman. I just don't like the idea of one of my
best officers putting himself in unnecessary danger. 
LAFORGE: I guess I feel like I should be the one to decide whether it's
unnecessary or not. 
RIKER: My mother died when I was a baby. All I have is pictures, and
the stories that my father used to tell me about her. I begged him to
tell those stories over and over. When I was five and I went to school,
I started to tell my new friends those same stories, pretending that
she was alive. Then I started believing that she was alive, that she'd
just gone away, that she was coming back. The teacher got wind of this,
and she and my father had this talk with me. They told me it was
important to accept the fact that my mother was dead and that she
wasn't coming back. And all the hoping in the world wouldn't make it
so. In my mind, that was the day that my mother actually died. I cried
all that night. But after that, it started feeling better. 
LAFORGE: Your mother was dead. There was proof. There was a body, and a
funeral. It was a reality. 
RIKER: Geordi. 
LAFORGE: If I could see a body, if there were wreckage, I could accept
it, but my mother has just disappeared. And now, there's a possibility
that she is alive. And I'm not going to quit. Not yet. 
[Laboratory]

(Geordi activates the interface monitors when the
doors open) 
DATA: I suspected you would attempt to operate the interface alone. 
LAFORGE: Did you? 
DATA: I am familiar enough with your behaviour patterns to predict
certain decisions. 
LAFORGE: Well I guess you know me pretty well. 
DATA: You are disobeying the Captain. 
LAFORGE: I can't just sit back and do nothing when I know that my
mother might be down on that planet. 
DATA: I can not allow you to endanger your well-being. 
LAFORGE: Data, if I leave without knowing for sure, then I'll have to
live with that for the rest of my life, wondering if I left her to die.
I couldn't do that. That's why I've got to do this. 
DATA: I could have you confined to quarters for the duration of the
mission. 
LAFORGE: If that's what you need to do, Data, then do it. Because
nothing short of that is going to stop me from trying to save my
mother. 
(Data goes to the interface monitor) 
LAFORGE: What are you doing? 
DATA: I will monitor the interface and attempt to keep you safe. I can
not have you confined to quarters for something you have not yet done. 
LAFORGE: You know we could both get in a lot of trouble for this. 
DATA: There is a high degree of probability that you are correct. 
LAFORGE: Thanks, Data. 
DATA: However, I do have a request. 
LAFORGE: Yeah? What's that? 
DATA: I would ask you to consider the possibility that what you see is
not real. 
LAFORGE: I will. I promise. 
DATA: I am establishing the interface. 
