SILVA LAFORGE PICARD TROI CRUSHER DATA

[Raman Auxiliary control]

LAFORGE: But is it really you? 
SILVA: Yes, Geordi. It's mom. 
LAFORGE: But bow can that be? I mean, how is it possible? 
SILVA: There's no time to explain. We have to go down. 
LAFORGE: Down where? 
SILVA: The surface. 
[Laboratory]

CRUSHER: Geordi, report. 
[Raman Auxiliary control]

LAFORGE: Hang on, Doctor. Why? Why do we have to go
down to the surface? 
SILVA: We're dying. 
LAFORGE: We? The Hera? You mean the Hera is down there? 
CRUSHER [OC]: We're disconnecting you right now. 
LAFORGE: No, wait. 
SILVA: We need your help. I need your help. Geordi 
LAFORGE: Mom. 
(Geordi touches her, and gets a big shock) 
[Laboratory]

DATA: The cut off has been automatically activated.

CRUSHER: He's in neural shock.

[Sickbay]

CRUSHER: The sensory overload didn't cause any
permanent damage, but I wouldn't want to expose his brain to that kind
of stimulus again. 
PICARD: Is there any indication what caused this hallucination? 
CRUSHER: His brain functions are normal. 
LAFORGE: I told you, I wasn't hallucinating. 
DATA: Geordi, I have analysed the probe's sensor logs. There are no
record to indicate the presence of a living human on board the Raman. 
LAFORGE: Well she wasn't actually there. Her ship is down on the
surface. 
PICARD: So you believe that what you saw was some kind of transmission?

LAFORGE: Somehow she has managed to communicate with me. 
DATA: We have no indication of a transmission of any kind. 
LAFORGE: Maybe I'm the only one who can detect it because I'm
interfaced with the probe. 
DATA: The probe does allow Geordi to sense quantum fluctuations,
subspace anomalies, and other phenomenon not perceptible by any other
kind of sensors. 
PICARD: Granted, but how could he perceive his mother visually as if
she were standing there in the room? 
CRUSHER: I'm not sure, I do know that our brains weren't designed to
process the kind of sensory information Geordi was getting. When the
brain receives something it can't understand, it interprets the input
as best it can, sometimes as a smell or a sound, sometimes visually. 
LAFORGE: You see? 
CRUSHER: But Geordi, I'm not saying that your mother was really
communicating with you. I'm just trying to give you a reason why you
might've thought that she was. 
LAFORGE: Look, I'm telling you my mother's ship is trapped down there
and we've got to help them. 
PICARD: Geordi, the Hera's last reported location was three hundred
light years away. How could it end up here? 
DATA: If the Hera is on the surface, its hull could not possibly
withstand the pressure of the atmosphere. 
LAFORGE: Well at least let me go back down there just to be sure. 
CRUSHER: I do not recommend that he use the interface again. The
sensory overload almost killed you. 
LAFORGE: I'll be all right. 
PICARD: No, no, I'm sorry, Geordi. I'm not prepared to risk your life.
Data, find another way of salvaging the Raman. I want an alternate plan
in two hours. 
(Data leaves) 
PICARD: Geordi, I'd like you to talk to Counsellor Troi. She's
expecting you. 
LAFORGE: Aye, sir. 
[Troi's office]

TROI: What's your mother like, Geordi? 
LAFORGE: If you think I'm going to start talking about my childhood,
Counsellor, you're way off. 
TROI: That's not what I asked. 
LAFORGE: Well, she's, she's brilliant. Funny. She's incredibly
perceptive. She knows people. Knows what they're all about even before
they open their mouths. She's always been that way. She's a real good
judge of character. 
TROI: When was the last time you saw her? 
LAFORGE: About seven months ago, when she first took command of the
Hera. I went to a party she had for her crew. She wanted me to come
over and see her, but I was really busy at the time. I mean I suppose I
could have made the time to go and see her, but, you know, I just
didn't think that. I mean, you know, I, I didn't think that 
TROI: You didn't think it would be your last chance to see her. 
LAFORGE: That's not what I was going to say. 
TROI: I want to suggest something. Call it a theory, all right? 
LAFORGE: All right. 
TROI: You're worried about the disappearance of your mother, guilty
that you didn't see her when you had the chance, so you're unwilling to
consider that she might be dead. Your need to believe she's alive is so
strong that it manifests itself as a physical image. 
LAFORGE: But she told me she's trapped on that planet, that she's in
danger. Now, if this was some kind of wish fulfillment, don't you think
I'd be fantasising her safe and sound? 
TROI: No. Because that would be the end of your fantasy. You'd know it
wasn't true. The more involved and complicated and unending your story
is, the longer you can believe your mother's still alive. 
LAFORGE: Yeah, well, that's your theory, Counsellor. I've got one of my
own.

