SILVA DATA LAFORGE

[Raman Auxiliary control]

LAFORGE: Mom? Mom? 
SILVA: Hello, Geordi. 
LAFORGE: Mom, how did you get here? 
SILVA: I'm not really with you, Geordi. I'm on my ship, on the surface.
We were pulled into a warp funnel. 
LAFORGE: That's just what I thought. How are we communicating? 
SILVA: We found a way to send a subspace signal that could cut through
the atmospheric interference. 
DATA [OC]: Geordi, are you seeing the image of your mother? 
LAFORGE: Yes, and she's just 
[Laboratory]

LAFORGE: Confirmed everything I've been saying. 
DATA: I am reading unusual subspace energy in your vicinity, similar to
what the probe sensor recorded the first time you encountered your
mother. 
LAFORGE: That's how she's communicating with me. It's the only kind of
signal they could send that could cut through the interference.

[Raman Auxiliary control]

SILVA: We need your help. 
LAFORGE: I've been thinking about this. I'm going to take the Raman
into a low stationary orbit and initiate an inverse warp cascade. 
SILVA: Why? 
LAFORGE: The subspace distortion from the cascade should reverse the
warp funnel. Your ship will end up right back where it started.

[Laboratory]

DATA: Geordi, the atmosphere becomes increasingly
turbulent the farther down you go. You may not be able to bring the
Raman close enough to the Hera before being destroyed. 
LAFORGE: I have to try, Data.

[Raman Auxiliary control]

SILVA: We're running out of time. 
LAFORGE: Shields back online. We're starting our descent. Thank God. 
SILVA: Thank God? 
LAFORGE: That you're alive. That I was right about all of this. I can't
wait to call Dad. He and Ariana had given up. 
SILVA: We're going home. 
LAFORGE: Well, eventually, yeah. Data, everything's fading in and out.

[Laboratory]

LAFORGE: I'm losing the interface. 
DATA: The probe is descending out of range. 
LAFORGE: You'll have to turn up the input gain to maintain my
connection. 
DATA: We are already at seventy five percent of tolerance. 
LAFORGE: Data, you can turn it all the way up to a hundred if you
increase it slowly enough. Give my nervous system chance to adjust. 
DATA: That is theoretically true, but even at this level of input you
are already experiencing dangerous neural feedback. 
LAFORGE: There are over three hundred people on board the Hera, Data.
You and I are the only chance they've got. 
DATA: I will increase the gain incrementally as you descend.

