RIKER LAFORGE WORF PICARD HOLT CRUSHER DATA

[Jefferies tube]

LAFORGE: There it goes. I'm on my way down.

[Laboratory]

RIKER: Why the body suit? 
DATA: It provides tactile sensations so that Geordi can feel he's in
the same environment as the probe. 
(Geordi is 'walking' past a panel and sees the probe as his reflection.
He leans forward to examine it) 
CRUSHER: Geordi, what's wrong? 
LAFORGE: Nothing. I'm seeing my reflection in a panel. 
[Engineering]

LAFORGE: I forgot what a handsome guy I am.

Captain's log, stardate 47215.5. We are responding
to a distress call from the science vessel Raman, which is apparently
trapped inside the turbulent atmosphere of an unusual gas giant planet.
We will use an experimental interface probe in our attempt to rescue
it.

[Bridge]

DATA: I have reviewed the vessel's mission plans.
The Raman was to descend to the lower atmosphere, eleven thousand
kilometres below its current position. The crew was to sample the
atmosphere at that level, and then return to a safer orbit. 
LAFORGE: Something must have happened down there. Maybe the shields
failed, or they had some kind of inversion reaction in the nacelles. 
PICARD: Any life signs? 
LAFORGE: Our biosensors are useless. There's too much interference in
the atmosphere. 
RIKER: The crew might still be alive. There's no way we can tell from
up here. 
PICARD: Will the probe be able to transmit through that interference? 
DATA: The probe sends information via a focused particle beam. It
should be able to cut through the interference. 
LAFORGE: But we may have to operate the probe at close to tolerance
levels. 
PICARD: Will your nervous system be able to handle that much sensory
input? 
LAFORGE: We've already tested the interface at about seventy percent
tolerance. 
RIKER: We shouldn't have any trouble going higher. The safety override
will kick in at about ninety eight percent tolerance, and that'll
disengage the interface. 
WORF: Captain, I am receiving a transmission from Starfleet Command.
Admiral Holt. 
PICARD: In my ready room. The seven people on that ship are our first
priority. Is the probe ready for launch?
DATA: Yes, sir. 
PICARD: Send it directly to the aft section of the Raman through the
secondary air lock. That way it should put it just one bulkhead away
from the Bridge. 
LAFORGE: I'll interface with the probe as soon as it's ready, take it
the rest of the way from there. 
PICARD: Make it so.

[Ready room]

PICARD: Hello, Marcus. 
HOLT [on monitor]: Jean-Luc. 
PICARD: How's life on DS Three? 
HOLT [on monitor]: We're hosting this year's palio. The Ferengi have
already been accused of trying to bribe the Breen pilot into throwing
the race. 
PICARD: There's nothing unusual about that. 
HOLT [on monitor]: Nothing at all. I wish I could say I was just
calling to catch up on things. Nine days ago, the Hera left here on a
routine courier mission. We were in contact with them for five of those
days. Then the ship disappeared without a trace. 
PICARD: The Hera? 
HOLT [on monitor]: I'm afraid so. The Excelsior and the Noble have been
retracing its course for the last seventy two hours. Nothing. I'm going
to keep them at it for another seventy two. But to be honest, I don't
think another week would make any difference. 
PICARD: I'll inform Commander La Forge. 
