RIKER LAFORGE PICARD CRUSHER DATA DRLAFORGE

[Sickbay]

(Geordi's hands are in the healing box) 
PICARD: How did this happen? 
CRUSHER: There was some kind of energy discharge in the interface suit.

PICARD: But shouldn't the safety overrides have prevented that? 
CRUSHER: Yes, but I have a theory why they didn't. The tolerance levels
of the interface were set extremely high. I think Geordi's neural
response to the input was so strong that it created a feedback loop. 
LAFORGE: The sensors that were transmitting the sensation of heat to my
hands must've overloaded. 
PICARD: The crew of the Raman are dead. I would like to retrieve them
and their vessel, but not if it means putting Geordi's safety at risk. 
LAFORGE: If we turn down the sensory input on the probe, I should be
fine. Seven people lost their lives down there, Captain. We should at
least retrieve the information they were collecting. 
PICARD: Doctor? 
CRUSHER: If we operate the interface at lower input levels, I'd say the
risk is acceptable. 
PICARD: Picard to Riker. 
RIKER [OC]: Riker here. 
PICARD: We will proceed with the probe. 
[Bridge]

RIKER: We'll have to take it into the Raman's
auxiliary control room. Their Bridge is too badly damaged. 
[Sickbay]

PICARD: How long before you have it in position? 
RIKER [OC]: A couple of hours. We have to cut through the bulkhead. 
PICARD: Acknowledged. 
CRUSHER: Well, it looks like you'll have time to recuperate. 
LAFORGE: Yeah. There's something I've got to do anyway.

[La Forge's quarters]

(his Dad's on the monitor - played by Ben Vareen) 
LAFORGE: How are you, Dad? 
DR LA FORGE: As well as expected, under the circumstances. Are you
okay? 
LAFORGE: Yeah. 
DR LA FORGE: I spoke with your sister this morning. She said she'll be
in touch with you in a few days. Right now, she's pretty upset. The
service for the Hera will probably be on Vulcan. Most of the crew was
from there. But your sister and I want to have a private ceremony. 
LAFORGE: Dad. Don't you think everybody's jumping the gun here? Last I
heard there were still two starships out there looking for them.
They've found no debris, no residual warp distortion. 
DR LA FORGE: And no ship. 
LAFORGE: Not yet, but that doesn't mean they won't. 
DR LA FORGE: Starfleet is considering the Hera lost. The search isn't
much more than a formality at this point. Geordi, your mother's gone. 
LAFORGE: Yeah, well you can think that if you want. But until I see
some hard evidence, I'm not going to give up hope. 
DR LA FORGE: All right, Geordi. Call me if you need anything. 
[Data's quarters]

(Data is gazing at a blank monitor screen when the
doorbell rings) 
DATA: Come in.
LAFORGE: Hey, Data. Still working? 
DATA: No. I have completed the adjustments on the interface. I am now
waiting for Commander Riker to finish moving the probe. Do you need to
be comforted? 
LAFORGE: No. I was just passing by. I was wondering what you were up
to. 
DATA: I am using the time to catch up on my study of poetry. 
LAFORGE: Data, there's nothing on the screen. 
DATA: That is not entirely correct. While it is true the display is
currently blank, this emptiness has a poetic meaning. Therefore it
cannot be considered nothing as such. 
LAFORGE: Says who? 
DATA: The ancient Doosodarians. Much of their poetry contained such
lacunae or empty spaces. Often these pauses measured several days in
length, during which poet and audience were encouraged to fully
acknowledge the emptiness of the experience. 
LAFORGE: I remember a few lectures from Starfleet Academy that seemed
like that. 
DATA: Are you certain you do not wish to talk about your mother? 
LAFORGE: Why would you ask that? 
DATA: You are no doubt feeling emotional distress as a result of her
disappearance. While you claim to be just passing by, that is most
likely an excuse to start a conversation about this uncomfortable
subject. Am I correct? 
LAFORGE: No, Data. Sometimes just passing by means, just passing by. 
DATA: Then I apologise for my premature assumption. This particular
poem has a lacuna of forty seven minutes. You may experience the
emptiness with me if you wish. 
LAFORGE: Thanks. (deep breath) You know, Data, maybe you gave up a
little too easily. 
DATA: I do not understand. 
LAFORGE: Well, when I said just passing by means just passing by, I
really didn't mean it. 
DATA: My initial assumption was correct. You do wish to speak of your
mother. 
LAFORGE: Am I crazy to think that she's still alive? 
DATA: Your sanity is not in question. However, your evaluation of the
available information is biased. 
LAFORGE: She's a starship captain. She's gotten herself into and out of
impossible situations before. Why should this be any different? 
DATA: Disappearances fitting the profile of the Hera have rarely ended
with the safe recovery of ship and crew. 
LAFORGE: Well that makes me feel much better. Look, I'm sorry, Data. I
didn't mean to snap at you. 
DATA: I am not offended. You are upset. Your reactions are not
surprising. 
LAFORGE: It's just that, if she really is dead, I don't know what I'm
going to do. 
