PICARD SILVA DATA LAFORGE RIKER

[Observation lounge]

DATA: I have been exploring the possibility of
using a tractor beam to pull the Raman from the atmosphere. However,
the high level of interference prevents a positive lock. 
RIKER: If we set up some sort of relay system? 
DATA: That is my conclusion as well, Commander. Two shuttlecraft,
staggered between the Enterprise and the Raman, with their shields
adjusted to refocus the tractor beam. 
PICARD: Can we get the shuttles close enough without danger? Mister La
Forge. 
LAFORGE: Sure. Yeah. As long as we keep them both above the
troposphere, that'll be all right. 
PICARD: Then in that case 
LAFORGE: But what about the Hera? We'd be leaving my mother and her
crew stranded on the planet. 
PICARD: Commander. 
LAFORGE: I've been thinking about this. A couple of weeks ago I got a
message from my mother. She said she had a new Chief Engineer who had
been experimenting with the warp drive. Now, I've seen the Hera. It
uses trionic initiators in the warp coil. They have a reputation
of strange side effects, especially when you start playing around with
them. 
DATA: There have been reports of warp bubbles and other subspace
deformations. 
LAFORGE: So, what if that's what happened? Not a warp bubble, but a
subspace funnel. 
RIKER: Connecting two points through subspace? 
LAFORGE: Well the Hera could have accidentally created a distortion
that emptied out right here at Marijne Seven. 
PICARD: Why here? 
LAFORGE: The Hera passed near this planet just ten days ago. There's an
awful lot of subspace disturbance in the atmosphere. The ship could've
accidentally picked up some residual traces that directed the funnel
right back here. 
RIKER: So the Hera's in one piece somewhere out there? 
LAFORGE: Maybe it's being surrounded by some kind of warp field, but
who knows for how long? 
PICARD: Mister La Forge, do you have any evidence to support this
hypothesis? 
LAFORGE: I did pick up some pretty strange subspace readings when I was
interfaced with the probe. 
RIKER: Geordi, that could have been anything. 
LAFORGE: Yeah, but I talked to her, Commander. She asked me to bring
the Raman closer to the planet. 
PICARD: Mister Data, is any of this possible? 
DATA: Yes, sir. However, it is highly unlikely. 
PICARD: How unlikely? 
DATA: Nearly impossible, sir. 
PICARD: let's proceed with the shuttle plan. 
LAFORGE: Captain 
PICARD: Dismissed. Mister La Forge. 
(Riker and Data leave) 
PICARD: I want you to know that I am not unsympathetic to what you're
going through. Your mother's disappearance is tragic, but I cannot risk
your safety on the basis of a dubious hypothesis. 
LAFORGE: Captain, if I'm right and there's just one chance in a million
that she's alive 
PICARD: I'm sorry, Geordi. My decision is made. 
LAFORGE: I understand, sir.

[Engineering]

RIKER: We'll be in position to use the tractor beam
in less than an hour. 
LAFORGE: You didn't come all the way down here to tell me that. 
RIKER: No, I didn't. Geordi, I may have seemed a little harsh about the
situation aboard the Raman. I just don't like the idea of one of my
best officers putting himself in unnecessary danger. 
LAFORGE: I guess I feel like I should be the one to decide whether it's
unnecessary or not. 
RIKER: My mother died when I was a baby. All I have is pictures, and
the stories that my father used to tell me about her. I begged him to
tell those stories over and over. When I was five and I went to school,
I started to tell my new friends those same stories, pretending that
she was alive. Then I started believing that she was alive, that she'd
just gone away, that she was coming back. The teacher got wind of this,
and she and my father had this talk with me. They told me it was
important to accept the fact that my mother was dead and that she
wasn't coming back. And all the hoping in the world wouldn't make it
so. In my mind, that was the day that my mother actually died. I cried
all that night. But after that, it started feeling better. 
LAFORGE: Your mother was dead. There was proof. There was a body, and a
funeral. It was a reality. 
RIKER: Geordi. 
LAFORGE: If I could see a body, if there were wreckage, I could accept
it, but my mother has just disappeared. And now, there's a possibility
that she is alive. And I'm not going to quit. Not yet. 
[Laboratory]

(Geordi activates the interface monitors when the
doors open) 
DATA: I suspected you would attempt to operate the interface alone. 
LAFORGE: Did you? 
DATA: I am familiar enough with your behaviour patterns to predict
certain decisions. 
LAFORGE: Well I guess you know me pretty well. 
DATA: You are disobeying the Captain. 
LAFORGE: I can't just sit back and do nothing when I know that my
mother might be down on that planet. 
DATA: I can not allow you to endanger your well-being. 
LAFORGE: Data, if I leave without knowing for sure, then I'll have to
live with that for the rest of my life, wondering if I left her to die.
I couldn't do that. That's why I've got to do this. 
DATA: I could have you confined to quarters for the duration of the
mission. 
LAFORGE: If that's what you need to do, Data, then do it. Because
nothing short of that is going to stop me from trying to save my
mother. 
(Data goes to the interface monitor) 
LAFORGE: What are you doing? 
DATA: I will monitor the interface and attempt to keep you safe. I can
not have you confined to quarters for something you have not yet done. 
LAFORGE: You know we could both get in a lot of trouble for this. 
DATA: There is a high degree of probability that you are correct. 
LAFORGE: Thanks, Data. 
DATA: However, I do have a request. 
LAFORGE: Yeah? What's that? 
DATA: I would ask you to consider the possibility that what you see is
not real. 
LAFORGE: I will. I promise. 
DATA: I am establishing the interface. 
[Raman Auxiliary control]

LAFORGE: Mom? Mom? 
SILVA: Hello, Geordi. 
LAFORGE: Mom, how did you get here? 
SILVA: I'm not really with you, Geordi. I'm on my ship, on the surface.
We were pulled into a warp funnel. 
LAFORGE: That's just what I thought. How are we communicating? 
SILVA: We found a way to send a subspace signal that could cut through
the atmospheric interference. 
DATA [OC]: Geordi, are you seeing the image of your mother? 
LAFORGE: Yes, and she's just 
[Laboratory]

LAFORGE: Confirmed everything I've been saying. 
DATA: I am reading unusual subspace energy in your vicinity, similar to
what the probe sensor recorded the first time you encountered your
mother. 
LAFORGE: That's how she's communicating with me. It's the only kind of
signal they could send that could cut through the interference.

[Raman Auxiliary control]

SILVA: We need your help. 
LAFORGE: I've been thinking about this. I'm going to take the Raman
into a low stationary orbit and initiate an inverse warp cascade. 
SILVA: Why? 
LAFORGE: The subspace distortion from the cascade should reverse the
warp funnel. Your ship will end up right back where it started.

