SANDERS RIKER VEKOR PICARD TALLERA COMPUTER BARAN

[Riker's room]

PICARD: We don't have much time. It's good to see
you, Will. I didn't expect to meet you here. 
RIKER: I was looking to find the people who killed you on the surface.
A witness said they saw you vaporised. 
PICARD: These mercenaries use weapons that can activate their
transporter. It gives them the opportunity to beam things quickly, just
by firing at them. That's what they did to me. 
RIKER: I don't understand any of this. Who are these people? What are
you doing involved with them? 
PICARD: The site that I wanted to study had been raided. A lot of the
artefacts had been stolen. The site had been practically destroyed. I
wanted to find out who was responsible. I tracked them to that bar on
Dessica Two. I must have asked too many questions. They captured me.
They wanted to find out how much I knew about their operation. 
RIKER: And then you became part of their crew? 
PICARD: I convinced them I was a smuggler, and that my name was Galen.
I offered to help them appraise the artefacts that they had stolen.
Will, these aren't common thieves. They are stealing Romulan artefacts
from archaeological sites throughout this sector. Baran has me
analysing each one if them for a particular particle signature. Will,
they are looking for a specific artefact. 
RIKER: Why? 
PICARD: That's what we have to find out. Baran is the key. I think that
he knows more about what we're really looking for than anyone else on
this ship. I want you to get close to him. Try and get his confidence. 
RIKER: That's why you set up the engine failure, because you knew that
I'd be able to fix it. 
PICARD: He also believes that you're a less than perfect Starfleet
officer. Will, I want you to play into that role. Baran and I, well, he
doesn't care very much for me, but he has to tolerate me because he
needs my help with these artefacts. But if you and I become enemies,
then there's a better chance of you and he becoming friends. 
RIKER: All right. I'll do what I can. 
(Baran enters, Picard hits Riker) 
BARAN: What are you doing here? 
PICARD: Getting some answers, because you can't get him to talk. 
(Baran punishes Picard) 
BARAN: No one conducts an interrogation on this ship without my
permission. Is that understood? 
(Picard walks to the door, keeping eye contact with Baran all the time,
and kicks Riker for good measure)

[Mercenary Bridge]

BARAN: Our next objective should prove an
interesting challenge. We're headed for the Sakethan burial mounds on
Calder Two. 
PICARD: What? Calder Two isn't just another archaeological site, you
know. It's a Federation outpost there. 
BARAN: I don't see that as a problem. 
PICARD: It's defended by Starfleet. You don't think they're just going
to stand by while we walk in there and take whatever we want. 
BARAN: I'm familiar with the tactical situation. 
VEKOR: What are their defences? 
BARAN: Nothing to worry about. They have a type four deflector shield
protecting the outpost and the ruins. 
PICARD: They also have a minimum of two phaser banks and possibly
photon torpedoes. Is that enough to worry about? 
TALLERA: How do you know so much about this outpost? 
PICARD: Because I tried to smuggle a Sakethan glyph stone out of there
nearly two years ago. I barely got away in one piece. 
BARAN: Our weapons are more than a match for their defences. I
anticipate that we'll be able to destroy the outpost within fifteen
minutes. Then we'll send in Tallera and the landing party to secure the
relics. 
PICARD: Why don't we use Riker? He's a Starfleet Commander. He could
talk us past the outpost security without raising their suspicions.
Then when their shields go down, we can beam the artefacts up here
without ever leaving the ship. 
VEKOR: Why would Riker help us? Just because he's out of favour with
Starfleet doesn't mean that he's ready to betray them. 
PICARD: If he doesn't help us, we'll have to destroy the outpost and
kill everyone on it. He's still a Starfleet officer. He won't want to
take innocent lives if he can possibly prevent it. 
TALLERA: The last time we engaged Starfleet, we lost a man. We can't
afford any more casualties. If we can avoid a battle, I think we
should. 
BARAN: All right, we'll try it. We'll be at Calder Two within five
hours. You all know your duties. I want this ship prepared for battle,
in case your plan doesn't work.

[Mercenary cargo hold]

(Picard is scanning artefacts already in storage) 
PICARD: Computer, reset diagnostic for new sample, lot number four
seven eight B. Access spectral analysis and begin scan, mode three. 
COMPUTER: Scan complete. Terikon particle decay profile does not fall
within specified reference range. Probability of match zero point zero
four percent. 
PICARD: Computer, reset diagnostic for new sample, lot number three six
nine B. 
(Tallera enters) 
PICARD: Access spectral analysis, mode two, begin scan. 
TALLERA: Baran wants to see the analysis of the last lot. He thinks
you're moving a little slowly. 
PICARD: You can tell Baran if he wants the analysis done faster, he can
do it himself. If he wants it done correctly, he can wait. 
TALLERA: Do you enjoy living dangerously, Galen? Baran can kill you in
an instant if he activates his control device. 
PICARD: I doubt that he'll do that. I've increased the accuracy of the
identification process by a factor of ten. I'm the best person to
analyse these artefacts. Baran knows that. 
TALLERA: He may need you now, but I know Baran, and I can tell you he's
not going to back down forever. You accomplish nothing by provoking
him. 
PICARD: I don't like operating in the dark. If I knew what the point of
this mission were, why I was analysing these relics. 
TALLERA: If Baran felt it were wise to let the crew know that, I'm sure
he would have. 
PICARD: Do you know what all this is about? 
TALLERA: What Baran knows, I know. 
PICARD: Then what's going on here. Why are we risking our lives taking
these artefacts? Who wants them? 
TALLERA: I see no reason to tell you anything, but you can rest assured
I don't necessarily share everything I know with Baran, either. This
conversation, for example, will stay between us. 
PICARD: You can tell Baran every word that I've said. He knows that I
don't think much of him as a leader. 
TALLERA: He's been in charge of this crew for a long time. 
PICARD: Baran wouldn't last five minutes as captain if he didn't have
that control device. The crew follow him because they have no choice.
Baran's power is based on fear and intimidation. 
TALLERA: That almost sounds like a prelude to mutiny. 
PICARD: If someone were to challenge him, the rest of the crew would
follow. 
TALLERA: I was right. You do like living dangerously. I like you,
Galen. I can tolerate a lot from someone like you, but only to a point.
I intend to complete this mission successfully and get what's been
promised me. If it looks as though you're getting in the way of that,
I'll deal with you myself.

[Mercenary Bridge]

SANDERS [on monitor]: Commander, no one is allowed
on the surface without prior authorisation from the Federation Science
Council. 
RIKER: I'm aware of that, Lieutenant, but your outpost is in imminent
danger of attack. I would like to station security personnel on the
surface for your protection. Now, I'm ordering you to drop your
shields. 
SANDERS: I'm sorry, sir, but the regulations are very specific. I can't
do it. If you'd like, you can remain in orbit until we contact the
Science Council, but we're experiencing some communication difficulties
right now, so that 
(Baran cuts transmission) 
BARAN: This isn't working. They're delaying on purpose. Someone has
warned them. Charge main disruptor array. Destroy the outpost. 
(Picard leaps across and knocks Vekor from her console) 
PICARD: No, there's no time for that! Starfleet will be here any
minute. 
BARAN: What are you doing? 
PICARD: I'm configuring the disruptors to fire a phase resonant pulse.
If I can hit their shield generator with precisely the right frequency,
I should be able to take it out with one shot. Firing. Their shields
are down. 
BARAN: The artefacts should be located in several small structures
arranged in staggered formations. 
TALLERA: I'm scanning. I think I've found them. 
BARAN: Lock coordinates and start bringing them up. 
(some pieces of broken pottery arrive on the pad) 
BARAN: There should be at least two more pieces down there. 
TALLERA: I've lost transporter lock. 
PICARD: They managed to get their shields back up. 
BARAN: I need those artefacts. Lock all disruptors on target. This time
I want that outpost destroyed. 
(they are hit by weapons fire) 
