ENSIGN RIKER DATA LAFORGE WORF
ago takes pattern make ensign damage emissions mister catalogued

[Observation lounge]

DATA: Barradas Three is the only class M planet in
this system, and it is listed as unpopulated. However, sensors have
detected intermittent energy signals emanating from its surface. 
RIKER: What's the source? 
LAFORGE: The signals are difficult to localise, but they could be
emissions from some kind of power converter. 
WORF: Which could indicate a base or a ship. 
RIKER: What else do we know about Barradas Three? 
DATA: The planet was used as an outpost for the Debrune approximately
two thousand years ago. The Federation's Archaeological survey has
catalogued numerous ruins on the surface. 
RIKER: Mister Worf, I'd like a security detail to accompany the away
team to the surface. I'll lead the team. Geordi, you're with me. Mister
Data, you have the Bridge. 
DATA: Aye, sir. Commander, as Acting First Officer, I must question
your decision to accompany the away team. If Captain Picard were here 
RIKER: He's not. 
DATA: I realise that, sir. But if he were, and he wanted to lead an
away team, you would tell him that the Captain's place is 
RIKER: On the Bridge. Not this time.

[Ruins]

RIKER: Ensign, you take that area. 
ENSIGN: Yes, sir. 
RIKER: Geordi? 
LAFORGE: It's tough to get accurate sensor readings. There's an awful
lot of interference in the area. 
RIKER: From what? 
LAFORGE: I'm not sure. It's very unlocalised. It could be atmospheric. 
RIKER: What do you make of these? 
(charred pits in the ground) 
LAFORGE: Well, these ruins around here are pretty ancient but I'd say
that this indentation was made fairly recently. Could be the site of
some battlefield. 
RIKER: It doesn't look like any blast point I've ever seen. The shape
is too perfect. 
LAFORGE: Sir, there's microcrystalline damage all throughout this area.
The same kind of pattern that Doctor Crusher picked up in the floor of
that bar on Dessica Two. 
WORF: Commander! I found something. 
(a pottery urn and other things in the sand) 
RIKER: Looks as if someone could have just dropped them. 
(the spare security guard gets shot, everyone takes cover from the
incessant energy weapons) 
LAFORGE: La Forge to Enterprise. We are under attack down here. 
