RIKER LAFORGE WORF VEKOR PICARD TALLERA ENSIGN BARAN DATA NARIK
wanted hadn ensign site say leonine signature male leader

[Mercenary Bridge]

BARAN: (vaguely leonine) What's the problem? 
NARIK: (more spiky, Harper-esque) I warned you not to push the engines
so hard. Two of the power shunts are on the verge of collapse. We'll be
lucky if we can maintain warp six. 
BARAN: How long will it take to repair? 
NARIK: I can try to realign the warp core. It'll take at least eleven
hours, but I'll have to shut the engines down completely. 
BARAN: We're not stopping. We can't afford to be sitting helpless in
space. I want warp eight available in five hours, and I don't want to
hear your excuses. 
(Narik goes to his console) 
BARAN: What were you doing on Barradas Three? 
RIKER: William T. Riker, Commander, SC two three one dash four two
seven. 
BARAN: Oh really? Well, I am Arctus Baran and I don't have a number.
Now what were you doing on Barradas Three, Commander? 
RIKER: We were studying the ruins. It was a scientific expedition. 
BARAN: Don't patronise me. Those ruins have been studied for centuries.
There's nothing new to learn from them. 
RIKER: Then what were you doing there? 
(Baran presses a device on his belt, and a gizmo on Riker's neck sends
him to his knees in pain) 
BARAN: Don't bother, Commander, you can't remove it. It's a neural
servo connected directly to your nervous system. It lets me control
precisely how much pain you feel. This setting is usually sufficient.
However, if necessary, it can go much higher. These devices were the
idea of my predecessor. It's a convenient way of enforcing discipline. 
RIKER: What happened to him? 
BARAN: He failed to enforce it with me. 
VEKOR: (red-head female alien) This is a waste of time, Baran. Get rid
of him now. 
BARAN: You should be more patient, Vekor. It might be rewarding. We
will wait. Let the memory of his pain argue with him for a while. It
might change his attitude. 
(the Romulan woman takes Riker out of the way) 
NARIK: Vekor is right. We should get rid of him. It's dangerous to have
someone from Starfleet on board. 
BARAN: Dangerous? It might be profitable. A Starfleet Commander is a
valuable hostage. 
VEKOR: Starfleet won't negotiate with us, but they'll pursue us as long
as we have him. 
(she gets a zap of pain) 
BARAN: This discussion is over. Get back to your post, Vekor. 
(a smooth-headed human turns to face the camera) 
PICARD: They're right, Baran, and you know it. I say kill him. Now. 
(Riker looks round, aghast) 
PICARD: If he has nothing to give us, we should kill him now and be
done with it. Everyone seems to recognise that fact except you. 
BARAN: I don't need a consensus to run this ship, Galen. 
(the lights go down) 
BARAN: What's going on? 
NARIK: I'm bypassing the aft plasma couplings. The power loss should
only last for a few seconds. 
BARAN: You should learn not to limit your options. Riker could be very
useful to us in the future. 
PICARD: He may not be as useful as you think, if this is the same Riker
that I've heard about. 
RIKER: And what Riker might that be? 
PICARD: Commander of the Enterprise formerly assigned to the USS Hood. 
RIKER: That's right. 
PICARD: Then you must be the William T. Riker with a history of
insubordination. He was even once relieved of duty, during the
Cardassian incident at Minos Korva. 
BARAN: How do you know all this? 
PICARD: Look, I've been smuggling artefacts from Federation sites for
years. You can't help developing a familiarity with certain Starfleet
personnel. If we hadn't have captured him, he'd probably have ended up
before a court martial. 
RIKER: I've gotten out of them before. 
PICARD: Look, he's no use to us. Finish him now. Let me do it for you. 
(the ship jerks and rushes into warp) 
TALLERA: (to another female) Watch him. 
VEKOR: We're accelerating. 
BARAN: What have you done? 
NARIK: It has nothing to do with my repairs. I think there's a
malfunction in the engine's intermix chamber. 
TALLERA: Plasma pressure is rising. 
BARAN: Where's the malfunction? 
NARIK: It could be one of any thirty subsystems. It'll take time to
locate. 
TALLERA: I don't think you're going to have the chance. Plasma pressure
has reached critical levels. 
BARAN: Seal off the intermix chamber. 
VEKOR: I can't. The override sequence won't engage. 
PICARD: The antimatter flow regulator is locked open. 
TALLERA: Logic subsystems still not responding. 
BARAN: (pushing Picard aside) Get out of the way. 
TALLERA: Plasma pressure has exceeded maximum levels. Eight percent
above critical and rising. 
NARIK: We have to jettison the core. 
BARAN: No, we'll be stranded here. 
PICARD: The flow regulator is frozen. 
RIKER: Let me do it. I've had a lot of experience with this sort of
system failures. I might be able to do something. 
TALLERA: Plasma pressure is eleven percent above critical. The
containment fields are beginning to degrade. 
BARAN: Go! 
NARIK: Flow regulator is not responding to manual override. Containment
fields won't hold much longer. 
RIKER: Looks like you've got a control logic lockout in your regulator
subsystem. I'm going to attempt to run an active
bypass through the plasma flow convertor. You, (Narik) start running
phase-lock feedback through that regulator. I want about a six second
delay. 
NARIK: What are you saying? I don't take orders from you. 
BARAN: You do as he says. 
TALLERA: Plasma pressure is fourteen percent above critical. 
BARAN: If you fail 
RIKER: We'll all be dead anyway. Just need a few more seconds. 
TALLERA: Plasma pressure is dropping. We're back into safe levels. 
RIKER: If you want to make sure that doesn't happen again, you'd better
re-initiate your regulator sub-compressors. A full diagnostic of your
intermix chamber wouldn't hurt either. 
BARAN: Do it. Put him in quarters for now. 
RIKER: (to Picard) You still wish you'd killed me?

[Ruins]

WORF: The search teams have reported in. They found
several archaeological sites. Each one has been looted. 
LAFORGE: It's possible that the microcrystalline damage I found in
these indentations was the result of some kind of high energy
transporter beam but I still don't understand. There's nothing here
that's particularly valuable. Why would anyone want to steal any of
these things? 
DATA: Perhaps these artefacts have a special value to the Romulans. 
WORF: The Romulans? 
DATA: These structures were built by the Debrune. That race is an
ancient offshoot of the Romulans. The ruins on the planet where Captain
Picard was killed were also Romulan in origin. 
WORF: The leader of the group that attacked us was Romulan. Perhaps
they are controlling the mercenaries. 
DATA: The question remains, why are they stealing these artefacts?

[Bridge]

DATA: There are several archaeological sites in
this sector containing ruins which are Romulan in origin. These are the
locations that were attacked by the mercenary vessel. 
LAFORGE: Looks like they did a pretty thorough job. 
DATA: The only sites not been attacked were on Calder Two, Yadalla
Prime, and Draken Four. 
LAFORGE: Yadalla and Draken are at the far edge of the sector, but
Calder Two? That's less than a day from here at
maximum warp. 
DATA: That would be their next likely target. 
LAFORGE: According to this, there's a Federation outpost at Calder Two.

DATA: But it is only a small science station. It has limited defensive
capabilities. I do not believe it could withstand an attack from the
mercenary ship. Mister Worf. Send a message to the Federation outpost
on Calder Two. Advise them that if a ship matching the mercenary vessel
approaches, they should attempt to delay it until our arrival. Ensign,
take us out of orbit. Set course for the Calder system. Warp nine. 
ENSIGN: (male) Aye, sir.

[Riker's room]

PICARD: We don't have much time. It's good to see
you, Will. I didn't expect to meet you here. 
RIKER: I was looking to find the people who killed you on the surface.
A witness said they saw you vaporised. 
PICARD: These mercenaries use weapons that can activate their
transporter. It gives them the opportunity to beam things quickly, just
by firing at them. That's what they did to me. 
RIKER: I don't understand any of this. Who are these people? What are
you doing involved with them? 
PICARD: The site that I wanted to study had been raided. A lot of the
artefacts had been stolen. The site had been practically destroyed. I
wanted to find out who was responsible. I tracked them to that bar on
Dessica Two. I must have asked too many questions. They captured me.
They wanted to find out how much I knew about their operation. 
RIKER: And then you became part of their crew? 
PICARD: I convinced them I was a smuggler, and that my name was Galen.
I offered to help them appraise the artefacts that they had stolen.
Will, these aren't common thieves. They are stealing Romulan artefacts
from archaeological sites throughout this sector. Baran has me
analysing each one if them for a particular particle signature. Will,
they are looking for a specific artefact. 
RIKER: Why? 
PICARD: That's what we have to find out. Baran is the key. I think that
he knows more about what we're really looking for than anyone else on
this ship. I want you to get close to him. Try and get his confidence. 
RIKER: That's why you set up the engine failure, because you knew that
I'd be able to fix it. 
PICARD: He also believes that you're a less than perfect Starfleet
officer. Will, I want you to play into that role. Baran and I, well, he
doesn't care very much for me, but he has to tolerate me because he
needs my help with these artefacts. But if you and I become enemies,
then there's a better chance of you and he becoming friends. 
RIKER: All right. I'll do what I can. 
(Baran enters, Picard hits Riker) 
BARAN: What are you doing here? 
PICARD: Getting some answers, because you can't get him to talk. 
(Baran punishes Picard) 
BARAN: No one conducts an interrogation on this ship without my
permission. Is that understood? 
(Picard walks to the door, keeping eye contact with Baran all the time,
and kicks Riker for good measure)

