SANDERS RIKER GIUSTI WORF PICARD TALLERA BARAN DATA

[Mercenary Bridge]

SANDERS [on monitor]: Commander, no one is allowed
on the surface without prior authorisation from the Federation Science
Council. 
RIKER: I'm aware of that, Lieutenant, but your outpost is in imminent
danger of attack. I would like to station security personnel on the
surface for your protection. Now, I'm ordering you to drop your
shields. 
SANDERS: I'm sorry, sir, but the regulations are very specific. I can't
do it. If you'd like, you can remain in orbit until we contact the
Science Council, but we're experiencing some communication difficulties
right now, so that 
(Baran cuts transmission) 
BARAN: This isn't working. They're delaying on purpose. Someone has
warned them. Charge main disruptor array. Destroy the outpost. 
(Picard leaps across and knocks Vekor from her console) 
PICARD: No, there's no time for that! Starfleet will be here any
minute. 
BARAN: What are you doing? 
PICARD: I'm configuring the disruptors to fire a phase resonant pulse.
If I can hit their shield generator with precisely the right frequency,
I should be able to take it out with one shot. Firing. Their shields
are down. 
BARAN: The artefacts should be located in several small structures
arranged in staggered formations. 
TALLERA: I'm scanning. I think I've found them. 
BARAN: Lock coordinates and start bringing them up. 
(some pieces of broken pottery arrive on the pad) 
BARAN: There should be at least two more pieces down there. 
TALLERA: I've lost transporter lock. 
PICARD: They managed to get their shields back up. 
BARAN: I need those artefacts. Lock all disruptors on target. This time
I want that outpost destroyed. 
(they are hit by weapons fire) 
[Bridge]

WORF: Direct hit on their aft deflectors. They are
undamaged. 
DATA: Ensign, scan for Starfleet combadge signals. Is Commander Riker
aboard that ship? 
GIUSTI: I can't tell, sir. Sensors are unable to penetrate their hull. 
DATA: Open a channel. 
WORF: Open. 
DATA: This is the Federation Starship Enterprise. You are ordered to
stand down. 
[Mercenary Bridge]

DATA [OC]: Drop your shields and prepare to be
boarded. 
BARAN: You sent them a message. You told them where to find us. 
RIKER: That's ridiculous. When did I have a chance? 
BARAN: This is set to kill. Order your ship to disengage. Activate
visual.

[Bridge]

DATA: Commander. Are you all right?

