SANDERS RIKER GIUSTI WORF DATA [OC] PICARD TALLERA SANDERS [on monitor] COMPUTER BARAN DATA
profile increased attack disengage zero difficulties cuts array order

[Mercenary cargo hold]

(Picard is scanning artefacts already in storage) 
PICARD: Computer, reset diagnostic for new sample, lot number four
seven eight B. Access spectral analysis and begin scan, mode three. 
COMPUTER: Scan complete. Terikon particle decay profile does not fall
within specified reference range. Probability of match zero point zero
four percent. 
PICARD: Computer, reset diagnostic for new sample, lot number three six
nine B. 
(Tallera enters) 
PICARD: Access spectral analysis, mode two, begin scan. 
TALLERA: Baran wants to see the analysis of the last lot. He thinks
you're moving a little slowly. 
PICARD: You can tell Baran if he wants the analysis done faster, he can
do it himself. If he wants it done correctly, he can wait. 
TALLERA: Do you enjoy living dangerously, Galen? Baran can kill you in
an instant if he activates his control device. 
PICARD: I doubt that he'll do that. I've increased the accuracy of the
identification process by a factor of ten. I'm the best person to
analyse these artefacts. Baran knows that. 
TALLERA: He may need you now, but I know Baran, and I can tell you he's
not going to back down forever. You accomplish nothing by provoking
him. 
PICARD: I don't like operating in the dark. If I knew what the point of
this mission were, why I was analysing these relics. 
TALLERA: If Baran felt it were wise to let the crew know that, I'm sure
he would have. 
PICARD: Do you know what all this is about? 
TALLERA: What Baran knows, I know. 
PICARD: Then what's going on here. Why are we risking our lives taking
these artefacts? Who wants them? 
TALLERA: I see no reason to tell you anything, but you can rest assured
I don't necessarily share everything I know with Baran, either. This
conversation, for example, will stay between us. 
PICARD: You can tell Baran every word that I've said. He knows that I
don't think much of him as a leader. 
TALLERA: He's been in charge of this crew for a long time. 
PICARD: Baran wouldn't last five minutes as captain if he didn't have
that control device. The crew follow him because they have no choice.
Baran's power is based on fear and intimidation. 
TALLERA: That almost sounds like a prelude to mutiny. 
PICARD: If someone were to challenge him, the rest of the crew would
follow. 
TALLERA: I was right. You do like living dangerously. I like you,
Galen. I can tolerate a lot from someone like you, but only to a point.
I intend to complete this mission successfully and get what's been
promised me. If it looks as though you're getting in the way of that,
I'll deal with you myself.

[Mercenary Bridge]

SANDERS [on monitor]: Commander, no one is allowed
on the surface without prior authorisation from the Federation Science
Council. 
RIKER: I'm aware of that, Lieutenant, but your outpost is in imminent
danger of attack. I would like to station security personnel on the
surface for your protection. Now, I'm ordering you to drop your
shields. 
SANDERS: I'm sorry, sir, but the regulations are very specific. I can't
do it. If you'd like, you can remain in orbit until we contact the
Science Council, but we're experiencing some communication difficulties
right now, so that 
(Baran cuts transmission) 
BARAN: This isn't working. They're delaying on purpose. Someone has
warned them. Charge main disruptor array. Destroy the outpost. 
(Picard leaps across and knocks Vekor from her console) 
PICARD: No, there's no time for that! Starfleet will be here any
minute. 
BARAN: What are you doing? 
PICARD: I'm configuring the disruptors to fire a phase resonant pulse.
If I can hit their shield generator with precisely the right frequency,
I should be able to take it out with one shot. Firing. Their shields
are down. 
BARAN: The artefacts should be located in several small structures
arranged in staggered formations. 
TALLERA: I'm scanning. I think I've found them. 
BARAN: Lock coordinates and start bringing them up. 
(some pieces of broken pottery arrive on the pad) 
BARAN: There should be at least two more pieces down there. 
TALLERA: I've lost transporter lock. 
PICARD: They managed to get their shields back up. 
BARAN: I need those artefacts. Lock all disruptors on target. This time
I want that outpost destroyed. 
(they are hit by weapons fire) 
[Bridge]

WORF: Direct hit on their aft deflectors. They are
undamaged. 
DATA: Ensign, scan for Starfleet combadge signals. Is Commander Riker
aboard that ship? 
GIUSTI: I can't tell, sir. Sensors are unable to penetrate their hull. 
DATA: Open a channel. 
WORF: Open. 
DATA: This is the Federation Starship Enterprise. You are ordered to
stand down. 
[Mercenary Bridge]

DATA [OC]: Drop your shields and prepare to be
boarded. 
BARAN: You sent them a message. You told them where to find us. 
RIKER: That's ridiculous. When did I have a chance? 
BARAN: This is set to kill. Order your ship to disengage. Activate
visual.

