TROI GIUSTI DATA LAFORGE WORF

[Bridge] 
LAFORGE [OC]: We've got one casualty and Commander
Riker has been taken captive. 
[Ruins]

WORF: Sir, the mercenaries have beamed away. They
must have a base or a ship nearby. Can the sensors locate anything?

[Bridge]

GIUSTI: Commander, we're picking up a vessel
leaving orbit. 
DATA: Why was it not detected earlier? 
GIUSTI: They could have been using the planet as a shield. Sir, they
are powering up their weapon systems. 
DATA: Raise shields. Red alert. 
(the little ship strafes the Enterprise as it passes) 
DATA: Damage report. 
GIUSTI: Minor hit on the port deflector. No damage. They're running,
sir. Their speed is warp eight point seven and holding. I think they're
at their maximum. 
DATA: Take us to warp nine and pursue. Lock phasers on target. 
GIUSTI: Sir, we should be within phaser range in twenty three seconds.
Switching to long-range scanners. Commander, the sensor image of that
ship is extremely weak. It's fading. The ship doesn't register on the
long-range sensors. I'm sorry, sir. We've lost them. 
DATA: Increase the sensor field bandwidth. Patch in the lateral sensor
arrays. 
GIUSTI: It's no good, the signal's gone. It just disappeared. 
DATA: Plot a course and take us back to Barradas Three. Notify the away
team to prepare for transport. 
GIUSTI: Aye, sir. 
[Observation lounge]

DATA: Starfleet Intelligence confirms that a ship
matching this configuration has been linked to raids on several other
planets in this sector. For the short time it was within our visual
range, we were able to take sensor readings of the mercenary vessel. It
appears to be encased in an energy absorbing material. Although we can
see the ship, this energy sheath renders it virtually undetectable to
our long range sensors. 
TROI: There must be some way we can track it. 
LAFORGE: Data, I know this is a long shot, but if I remodulate the long
range sensor array, I might be able to make it sensitive enough to
detect the ship. 
DATA: Without a full compositional analysis of the energy sheath, the
chances of finding the correct remodulation sequence are remote. 
WORF: Sir, they have taken Commander Riker. We must do something. We
cannot just sit here. 
DATA: On the contrary, Lieutenant. That is precisely what we must do.
Since there are no viable alternatives, we will return to the surface
and attempt to determine what these mercenaries are doing on this
planet. An investigation might reveal some indication of their purpose.
Please notify me when you have assembled your search teams. Dismissed. 
(Data sits back and steeples his fingers) 
