RIKER LAFORGE WORF VEKOR PICARD TALLERA ENSIGN BARAN DATA
headed remains convinced ensign capabilities reported wanted structures asked

[Ruins]

WORF: The search teams have reported in. They found
several archaeological sites. Each one has been looted. 
LAFORGE: It's possible that the microcrystalline damage I found in
these indentations was the result of some kind of high energy
transporter beam but I still don't understand. There's nothing here
that's particularly valuable. Why would anyone want to steal any of
these things? 
DATA: Perhaps these artefacts have a special value to the Romulans. 
WORF: The Romulans? 
DATA: These structures were built by the Debrune. That race is an
ancient offshoot of the Romulans. The ruins on the planet where Captain
Picard was killed were also Romulan in origin. 
WORF: The leader of the group that attacked us was Romulan. Perhaps
they are controlling the mercenaries. 
DATA: The question remains, why are they stealing these artefacts?

[Bridge]

DATA: There are several archaeological sites in
this sector containing ruins which are Romulan in origin. These are the
locations that were attacked by the mercenary vessel. 
LAFORGE: Looks like they did a pretty thorough job. 
DATA: The only sites not been attacked were on Calder Two, Yadalla
Prime, and Draken Four. 
LAFORGE: Yadalla and Draken are at the far edge of the sector, but
Calder Two? That's less than a day from here at
maximum warp. 
DATA: That would be their next likely target. 
LAFORGE: According to this, there's a Federation outpost at Calder Two.

DATA: But it is only a small science station. It has limited defensive
capabilities. I do not believe it could withstand an attack from the
mercenary ship. Mister Worf. Send a message to the Federation outpost
on Calder Two. Advise them that if a ship matching the mercenary vessel
approaches, they should attempt to delay it until our arrival. Ensign,
take us out of orbit. Set course for the Calder system. Warp nine. 
ENSIGN: (male) Aye, sir.

[Riker's room]

PICARD: We don't have much time. It's good to see
you, Will. I didn't expect to meet you here. 
RIKER: I was looking to find the people who killed you on the surface.
A witness said they saw you vaporised. 
PICARD: These mercenaries use weapons that can activate their
transporter. It gives them the opportunity to beam things quickly, just
by firing at them. That's what they did to me. 
RIKER: I don't understand any of this. Who are these people? What are
you doing involved with them? 
PICARD: The site that I wanted to study had been raided. A lot of the
artefacts had been stolen. The site had been practically destroyed. I
wanted to find out who was responsible. I tracked them to that bar on
Dessica Two. I must have asked too many questions. They captured me.
They wanted to find out how much I knew about their operation. 
RIKER: And then you became part of their crew? 
PICARD: I convinced them I was a smuggler, and that my name was Galen.
I offered to help them appraise the artefacts that they had stolen.
Will, these aren't common thieves. They are stealing Romulan artefacts
from archaeological sites throughout this sector. Baran has me
analysing each one if them for a particular particle signature. Will,
they are looking for a specific artefact. 
RIKER: Why? 
PICARD: That's what we have to find out. Baran is the key. I think that
he knows more about what we're really looking for than anyone else on
this ship. I want you to get close to him. Try and get his confidence. 
RIKER: That's why you set up the engine failure, because you knew that
I'd be able to fix it. 
PICARD: He also believes that you're a less than perfect Starfleet
officer. Will, I want you to play into that role. Baran and I, well, he
doesn't care very much for me, but he has to tolerate me because he
needs my help with these artefacts. But if you and I become enemies,
then there's a better chance of you and he becoming friends. 
RIKER: All right. I'll do what I can. 
(Baran enters, Picard hits Riker) 
BARAN: What are you doing here? 
PICARD: Getting some answers, because you can't get him to talk. 
(Baran punishes Picard) 
BARAN: No one conducts an interrogation on this ship without my
permission. Is that understood? 
(Picard walks to the door, keeping eye contact with Baran all the time,
and kicks Riker for good measure)

[Mercenary Bridge]

BARAN: Our next objective should prove an
interesting challenge. We're headed for the Sakethan burial mounds on
Calder Two. 
PICARD: What? Calder Two isn't just another archaeological site, you
know. It's a Federation outpost there. 
BARAN: I don't see that as a problem. 
PICARD: It's defended by Starfleet. You don't think they're just going
to stand by while we walk in there and take whatever we want. 
BARAN: I'm familiar with the tactical situation. 
VEKOR: What are their defences? 
BARAN: Nothing to worry about. They have a type four deflector shield
protecting the outpost and the ruins. 
PICARD: They also have a minimum of two phaser banks and possibly
photon torpedoes. Is that enough to worry about? 
TALLERA: How do you know so much about this outpost? 
PICARD: Because I tried to smuggle a Sakethan glyph stone out of there
nearly two years ago. I barely got away in one piece. 
BARAN: Our weapons are more than a match for their defences. I
anticipate that we'll be able to destroy the outpost within fifteen
minutes. Then we'll send in Tallera and the landing party to secure the
relics. 
PICARD: Why don't we use Riker? He's a Starfleet Commander. He could
talk us past the outpost security without raising their suspicions.
Then when their shields go down, we can beam the artefacts up here
without ever leaving the ship. 
VEKOR: Why would Riker help us? Just because he's out of favour with
Starfleet doesn't mean that he's ready to betray them. 
PICARD: If he doesn't help us, we'll have to destroy the outpost and
kill everyone on it. He's still a Starfleet officer. He won't want to
take innocent lives if he can possibly prevent it. 
TALLERA: The last time we engaged Starfleet, we lost a man. We can't
afford any more casualties. If we can avoid a battle, I think we
should. 
BARAN: All right, we'll try it. We'll be at Calder Two within five
hours. You all know your duties. I want this ship prepared for battle,
in case your plan doesn't work.

