TROI BARTENDER WORF RIKER YRANAC CRUSHER
star fired picard imagine vicious fell maybe probably sorry

  [Cantina]

(straight out of Star Wars episode 4, and everyone
is in casual clothes) 
BARTENDER: (very hairy) So, tell me, why is it so important that you
find this man? 
TROI: We had business dealings. He owes me money. 
BARTENDER: If we had business dealings, I can tell you that I wouldn't
disappear. 
TROI: Maybe we can discuss that possibility. But first, I have to find
him, collect the money I'm owed. 
BARTENDER: I'll be closing in a few hours. Perhaps we can discuss this
more privately. 
TROI: If I don't find him, I'm going to have to move on. Are you sure
you haven't seen him? 
BARTENDER: Human, about two metres tall, smooth-headed. No. I don't
remember anyone like that. 
TROI: You're lying. 
BARTENDER: And you're a Betazoid. I thought so. Listen, people who come
in here, they count on a certain amount of anonymity. And if I were to
start answering questions about them, even to a very beautiful woman,
well, I wouldn't be in business very long. And being a businesswoman,
I'm sure you understand. 
(and he goes off to serve another customer while at the other end of
the bar) 
RIKER: Great story. I'll remember it next time I'm in a knife fight. 
(walks over to Worf) 
RIKER: Any luck? 
WORF: I think the one over there knows something. 
WORF: He would not admit to having seen the Captain, but he said that
anyone who visited the ruins of Nafir would probably come here
eventually. I suspect he knows more. 
RIKER: Let's go. 
WORF: Commander, I told 
RIKER: My friend tells me you know about the man we're looking for. 
YRANAC: The only reason I'm talking to you is that I have a sister,
too. 
WORF: I explained to him that we are looking for a man who impregnated
your sister. 
RIKER: So you can imagine how much this means to me. 
YRANAC: Family honour is important. If someone had defiled my sister I
would do anything, pay anything, to find the one responsible. 
RIKER: And how much might anything be? 
YRANAC: As much as five bars of gold-pressed latinum. 
BARTENDER: I think you've had a little too much to drink. You'd better
leave. On your way, Yranac. 
(the bartender gets a phaser jabbed into his cheekbone) 
CRUSHER: I'm sorry, but I think he wants to stay. Sit down. 
RIKER: This is my sister. She's angry. She's got a vicious temper. I
wouldn't cross her. 
BARTENDER: You say one word and you're a dead man. 
YRANAC: Perhaps there's an element of risk here that I did not fully
appreciate. 
WORF: And how much more latinum will it take to offset this risk? 
YRANAC: This isn't about latinum. As a man with a sister, a sister with
a temper, I can sympathise with you, but, how did you come here? Do you
have a ship in orbit? 
RIKER: Yes. 
YRANAC: Then take me with you. You can drop me anywhere. 
RIKER: Agreed. Now talk. 
YRANAC: The man you're looking for was here several weeks ago. There
was a group of aliens sitting at this table. He was asking them
questions. 
WORF: Who were these aliens? 
YRANAC: I don't know, but they looked dangerous. They attacked him. He
managed to incapacitate three of them before he was knocked down. He
was thrown against that wall and fell there. 
(Crusher scans it with her tricorder) 
CRUSHER: I'm picking up some Starfleet fibre traces and human cellular
debris. 
RIKER: Can you establish a DNA reading? 
CRUSHER: There's something strange here. The cell structures are badly
distorted. It's as if they've been exposed to some kind of high-energy
field. 
WORF: A weapon discharge? 
CRUSHER: It could be. I'm picking up some faint traces of
microcrystalline damage in the floor material, but I'm not familiar
with the pattern I'm getting. 
YRANAC: Who are you people? 
RIKER: You didn't say anything about a weapon. 
YRANAC: I hadn't finished yet. You'll like this. The man got what was
coming to him. When they knocked him down, one of them took out a
weapon and fired. He was vaporised. 
TROI: He's telling the truth.

Acting Captain's log, stardate 47135.2. Doctor
Crusher has positively identified Captain Picard's DNA. There's no
doubt now that he's dead. 
