PICARD RIKER TALLERA NARIK

[Picard's room]

(Picard pulls a weapon as the door opens) 
RIKER: Good to see you, too. 
PICARD: I've had some unpleasant surprises. Will, this isn't a good
idea. Baran might grow suspicious. 
RIKER: As a matter of fact, it was Baran who sent me here. He told me
to pretend to be friendly with you and help you organise a mutiny, so
he can determine who your supporters in the crew and then eliminate
them. 
PICARD: What a tangled web we weave. I have difficulty remembering
whose side I'm on. So, what have you been able to find out? 
RIKER: When we reach the Hyralan Sector, we're supposed to rendezvous
with a Klingon transport ship. I'm not sure, but I think they may be
delivering another of the Romulan artefacts to us. 
PICARD: A second artefact? Oh, by the way, that first artefacts is not
Romulan. It's Vulcan. 
RIKER: Vulcan? 
PICARD: I have been looking over the glyphs and pictograms from the
Calder Two artefact. And although I don't have enough data to translate
all the inscriptions, the alphabet and symbology is much more
consistent with early Vulcan than Romulan. 
RIKER: Do these artefacts have some religious or cultural significance,
something that would make them valuable enough to kill for? 
PICARD: I don't know. If I could just get access to the Enterprise
computer just for a few moments. So, what will Baran do once he's
obtained the second artefact? 
RIKER: You're supposed to verify its authenticity, and then I'm
supposed to kill you, and I take your place. 
PICARD: Will, you always seem to be after my job. Well, as soon as
Baran feels that I've outlived my usefulness, he can kill me simply by
using the neural servo. So, I think we had better start planning a
mutiny.

[Mercenary Cargo hold]

(Narik is working at a small wall panel) 
PICARD: We need a new captain and I've come to one inescapable
conclusion 
NARIK: I agree. But I don't think that's you. 
PICARD: Oh? 
NARIK: I don't trust you, Galen. I don't think the rest of the crew
does either. They're not going to follow you. 
PICARD: Then who will they follow? You? 
NARIK: No, but they will follow Tallera and so will I. 
(Narik leaves and Tallera enters) 
TALLERA: Who are you? 
PICARD: What? 
TALLERA: You're no smuggler and I don't think your name's Galen. You
will tell me who you really are and what you are doing on this ship or
I will kill you right here. 
PICARD: What are you talking about? 
TALLERA: I will not play games with you. I found the message you sent
to the Enterprise. When Riker was using his command codes to drop their
shields, you sent them a transmission on the same carrier wave. You're
a Starfleet officer. Do not deny it. It is the only logical conclusion.
My name is actually T'Paal, and I am a member of the V'Shar. 
PICARD: Vulcan Security? 
TALLERA: That is correct. I infiltrated this ship a year ago posing as
a Romulan mercenary. I'm here to investigate a possible threat to
Vulcan. 
PICARD: What sort of threat? 
TALLERA: First things first, Galen. Who are you? 
PICARD: I'm Captain Jean-Luc Picard of the Enterprise. 
TALLERA: Very well. To answer your question, for several years now,
there has been a small but growing movement of extreme isolationists on
Vulcan. A group that believes contact with alien races has polluted our
culture and is destroying Vulcan purity. This group advocates the total
isolation of Vulcan from the rest of the galaxy and the eradication of
all alien influences from our planet. 
PICARD: That sounds like an illogical philosophy. 
TALLERA: Agreed. But extremists often have a logic all their own. 
PICARD: Tell me, Tallera, what are these artefacts we've been
collecting? I know that they are Vulcan in origin. 
TALLERA: I am sure you are familiar with the ancient history of my
people, before we found logic, before we found peace. 
PICARD: You were much as my people once were. Savage, warlike. 
TALLERA: There was even a time when we used our telepathic abilities as
a weapon. A time when we learned to kill with a thought. 
PICARD: The Stone of Gol! 
TALLERA: You know of it? 
PICARD: I know the story from Vulcan mythology. 
TALLERA: The Stone of Gol is real, but there is nothing supernatural or
magical about it. It is a psionic resonator, a device which focuses and
amplifies telepathic energy. It is one of the most devastating weapons
ever conceived. 
PICARD: But according to the legend, the Stone was destroyed by the
gods when the Vulcan people found the way to peace. 
TALLERA: The resonator was believed to have been destroyed during the
Time of the Awakening. Only one piece is known to have survived and it
was placed in a Vulcan museum under heavy guard. A year ago, that piece
was stolen from the museum. Soon after, mercenary ships began raiding
archaeological sites across the quadrant. We believe a member of the
isolationist movement is attempting to reassemble the resonator. 
PICARD: A telepathic weapon. 
TALLERA: My orders are to find that assassin and stop him. 
PICARD: It would seem that Baran has to deliver these artefacts to the
assassin in order to get paid. Therefore, you and I should continue our
masquerade. 
TALLERA: Agreed. But Captain, I cannot allow the resonator to be
assembled. If necessary, I will destroy this ship, its crew, all of us
to prevent that from happening.

Acting Captain's log, stardate 47160.1. The
Enterprise is entering the Hyralan Sector, which I believe to be the
next destination of the mercenary ship. 
