TROI GIUSTI WORF PICARD TALLERA KORAL DATA NARIK

[Mercenary Cargo hold]

(Narik is working at a small wall panel) 
PICARD: We need a new captain and I've come to one inescapable
conclusion 
NARIK: I agree. But I don't think that's you. 
PICARD: Oh? 
NARIK: I don't trust you, Galen. I don't think the rest of the crew
does either. They're not going to follow you. 
PICARD: Then who will they follow? You? 
NARIK: No, but they will follow Tallera and so will I. 
(Narik leaves and Tallera enters) 
TALLERA: Who are you? 
PICARD: What? 
TALLERA: You're no smuggler and I don't think your name's Galen. You
will tell me who you really are and what you are doing on this ship or
I will kill you right here. 
PICARD: What are you talking about? 
TALLERA: I will not play games with you. I found the message you sent
to the Enterprise. When Riker was using his command codes to drop their
shields, you sent them a transmission on the same carrier wave. You're
a Starfleet officer. Do not deny it. It is the only logical conclusion.
My name is actually T'Paal, and I am a member of the V'Shar. 
PICARD: Vulcan Security? 
TALLERA: That is correct. I infiltrated this ship a year ago posing as
a Romulan mercenary. I'm here to investigate a possible threat to
Vulcan. 
PICARD: What sort of threat? 
TALLERA: First things first, Galen. Who are you? 
PICARD: I'm Captain Jean-Luc Picard of the Enterprise. 
TALLERA: Very well. To answer your question, for several years now,
there has been a small but growing movement of extreme isolationists on
Vulcan. A group that believes contact with alien races has polluted our
culture and is destroying Vulcan purity. This group advocates the total
isolation of Vulcan from the rest of the galaxy and the eradication of
all alien influences from our planet. 
PICARD: That sounds like an illogical philosophy. 
TALLERA: Agreed. But extremists often have a logic all their own. 
PICARD: Tell me, Tallera, what are these artefacts we've been
collecting? I know that they are Vulcan in origin. 
TALLERA: I am sure you are familiar with the ancient history of my
people, before we found logic, before we found peace. 
PICARD: You were much as my people once were. Savage, warlike. 
TALLERA: There was even a time when we used our telepathic abilities as
a weapon. A time when we learned to kill with a thought. 
PICARD: The Stone of Gol! 
TALLERA: You know of it? 
PICARD: I know the story from Vulcan mythology. 
TALLERA: The Stone of Gol is real, but there is nothing supernatural or
magical about it. It is a psionic resonator, a device which focuses and
amplifies telepathic energy. It is one of the most devastating weapons
ever conceived. 
PICARD: But according to the legend, the Stone was destroyed by the
gods when the Vulcan people found the way to peace. 
TALLERA: The resonator was believed to have been destroyed during the
Time of the Awakening. Only one piece is known to have survived and it
was placed in a Vulcan museum under heavy guard. A year ago, that piece
was stolen from the museum. Soon after, mercenary ships began raiding
archaeological sites across the quadrant. We believe a member of the
isolationist movement is attempting to reassemble the resonator. 
PICARD: A telepathic weapon. 
TALLERA: My orders are to find that assassin and stop him. 
PICARD: It would seem that Baran has to deliver these artefacts to the
assassin in order to get paid. Therefore, you and I should continue our
masquerade. 
TALLERA: Agreed. But Captain, I cannot allow the resonator to be
assembled. If necessary, I will destroy this ship, its crew, all of us
to prevent that from happening.

Acting Captain's log, stardate 47160.1. The
Enterprise is entering the Hyralan Sector, which I believe to be the
next destination of the mercenary ship. 
[Bridge]

GIUSTI: I'm picking up a small vessel bearing one
two seven mark three three five. 
DATA: Is it the mercenary ship? 
GIUSTI: No, sir. It's a Klingon ship. 
WORF: A Toron class shuttlecraft. One person. 
DATA: Open a channel. This is Lieutenant Commander Data of the
Federation Starship Enterprise. 
KORAL [on viewscreen]: Koral. 
DATA: I take it that is your name? May I inquire as to your
destination? 
KORAL [on viewscreen]: No. 
DATA: May I ask the purpose of your journey? 
KORAL [on viewscreen]: No. 
DATA: Perhaps I have not made our intentions clear. We are
investigating 
(transmission ends) 
DATA: He seems most uncooperative. 
TROI: He may have been curt, but he was also very worried and even a
little scared. 
WORF: Sir, may I recommend that we bring the shuttle aboard with our
tractor beam, search it, and interrogate Koral. 
DATA: According to the terms of the Klingon-Federation Treaty, Koral
has every right to free transit through Federation space. We cannot
board or search his vessel without cause. 
WORF: Yes, sir. However, the Treaty does give us the right to conduct
health and safety inspections of any ship in our space. 
TROI: Health and safety inspections? 
DATA: I am not sure that using this clause as an excuse to conduct a
search would be consistent with the spirit of the Treaty. 
WORF: Yes, sir. 
DATA: However, if Koral wishes to contest our actions he can file a
protest with the Judge Advocate General's office. Bring the shuttle
aboard. Then you and Doctor Crusher can begin the inspection. 
WORF: Aye, sir.

