PICARD RIKER DATA WORF
conform sure just showing access better calder significance respect

[Ready room]

DATA: Lieutenant, I am dissatisfied with your
performance as First Officer. 
WORF: May I ask in what way? 
DATA: You continually question my orders in front of the crew. I do not
believe this is appropriate behaviour. 
WORF: With all due respect, sir, I have always felt free to voice my
opinions even when they differ from those of Captain Picard or
Commander Riker. 
DATA: That is true. But in those situations, you were acting as Head of
Security, not as First Officer. The primary role of the second in
command is to carry out the decisions of the Captain in this case, me. 
WORF: But is it not my duty to offer you alternatives? 
DATA: Yes. But once I have made a decision, it is your job to carry it
out regardless of how you may personally feel. Any further objections
should be given to me in private, not in front of the crew. I do not
recall Commander Riker ever publicly showing irritation with his
Captain as you did a moment ago. 
WORF: No, sir. 
DATA: If you do not feel capable of carrying out this role, I will
assign it to Commander La Forge and return you to Tactical. I would not
enter it into your record as a reprimand, simply as a transfer. 
WORF: I would prefer to remain at my current post. 
DATA: Then I expect you to conform to the guidelines I have laid out. 
WORF: Aye, sir. 
DATA: Dismissed. Mister Worf, I am sorry if I have ended our
friendship. 
WORF: Sir, it is I who has jeopardised our friendship, not you. If you
will overlook this incident, I would like to continue to consider you
my friend. 
DATA: I would like that as well. 
WORF: Thank you, sir.

[Picard's room]

(Picard pulls a weapon as the door opens) 
RIKER: Good to see you, too. 
PICARD: I've had some unpleasant surprises. Will, this isn't a good
idea. Baran might grow suspicious. 
RIKER: As a matter of fact, it was Baran who sent me here. He told me
to pretend to be friendly with you and help you organise a mutiny, so
he can determine who your supporters in the crew and then eliminate
them. 
PICARD: What a tangled web we weave. I have difficulty remembering
whose side I'm on. So, what have you been able to find out? 
RIKER: When we reach the Hyralan Sector, we're supposed to rendezvous
with a Klingon transport ship. I'm not sure, but I think they may be
delivering another of the Romulan artefacts to us. 
PICARD: A second artefact? Oh, by the way, that first artefacts is not
Romulan. It's Vulcan. 
RIKER: Vulcan? 
PICARD: I have been looking over the glyphs and pictograms from the
Calder Two artefact. And although I don't have enough data to translate
all the inscriptions, the alphabet and symbology is much more
consistent with early Vulcan than Romulan. 
RIKER: Do these artefacts have some religious or cultural significance,
something that would make them valuable enough to kill for? 
PICARD: I don't know. If I could just get access to the Enterprise
computer just for a few moments. So, what will Baran do once he's
obtained the second artefact? 
RIKER: You're supposed to verify its authenticity, and then I'm
supposed to kill you, and I take your place. 
PICARD: Will, you always seem to be after my job. Well, as soon as
Baran feels that I've outlived my usefulness, he can kill me simply by
using the neural servo. So, I think we had better start planning a
mutiny.

