VEKOR PICARD TALLERA NARIK
bridge fails symbol minds throws symbols away assembled care

[Mercenary Bridge]

VEKOR: We have entered orbit of Vulcan. 
PICARD: Tallera, I've decided on a change of plan. Take one of the
artefacts with you. Leave the other here. As soon as we have our
payment in full, we'll complete the delivery. 
TALLERA: That was not the agreement. 
PICARD: I realise that. But it's safer for all concerned to leave one
behind. 
TALLERA: They will not pay us until they get both pieces. 
PICARD: They've been waiting a long time for this. They're not going to
take any risks. Now, take one of the artefacts and beam down. 
TALLERA: That is all I was waiting for. Go to the navigational computer
and check file one three seven slash omega. You'll find a message
secretly transmitted to the Enterprise, containing our entire flight
plan. 
VEKOR: She's right. 
TALLERA: The message was sent by Galen. He's a Starfleet officer. 
PICARD: Tallera is right. But what she's not telling you is that those
artefacts she's holding are part of an incredibly powerful weapon.
There's no reward waiting for you down on the surface. As soon as she's
got those artefacts, she'll leave you behind to be captured by
Starfleet. 
VEKOR: I don't care what it is you want, Tallera. I don't care if
that's a weapon for your personal use or if you're really just making a
delivery as planned. All I care about is my money. So I propose a
compromise. Narik and I will go with you to the surface to guarantee
that we receive our payment. 
NARIK: After that, you can go anywhere you want. 
TALLERA: Agreed. Bring him as well. We'll use him as a hostage if
Starfleet arrives. If not, we'll kill him on the surface.

[T'Kareth sanctuary]

(a stone chamber with carved walls) 
TALLERA: There. Your reward, as promised. 
NARIK: Is it all there? 
VEKOR: No, this is less than half of what we were promised. Where's the
rest of it? 
(Tallera has assembled the resonator) 
TALLERA: That is all I could manage. I suggest you take it and leave. 
NARIK: I did not come this far to be cheated. I want it all, now. 
TALLERA: Very well. You will get what you deserve. 
(a strange field wraps Narik then throws him across the chamber.
Tallera then sends a second one to do the same to Vekor) 
TALLERA: Go ahead, Captain. Pick up the phaser. See what good it will
do. 
PICARD: You'll never get away with this. Starfleet will never stand and
watch you tear apart one of the founding worlds of the Federation. 
TALLERA: How little you understand what you're facing, Captain. You're
used to fighting enemies like yourself. People on ships with defence
shields, energy weapons, warp drives. But this is unlike anything
you've ever faced. This is the power of the mind. Pick up the phaser,
Captain. 
(Riker, Worf and two security guards beam in) 
PICARD: Listen to me, all of you! Drop your weapons! Do it! Don't make
any aggressive movements. The resonator
amplifies violent feelings and emotions. And that's why you wanted me
to pick up the phaser. That's how you were able to kill Narik and
Vekor. But I can see the symbol on that third artefact, and it is the
Vulcan symbol for peace standing between the symbols for war and death.
It's a warning that the power of the resonator can be overcome by
peace. 
TALLERA: You are about to see how wrong you are. 
PICARD: Empty your minds of violent thoughts. 
(the field passes through Riker without hurting him) 
TALLERA: No! 
PICARD: Think, Tallera. Two thousand years ago your people were being
consumed by war. But when peace came to Vulcan, the resonator became
useless. That's why it was dismantled. 
(Tallera tries it again on Worf and fails. She sinks to her knees) 
PICARD: You were right, Tallera. The resonator cannot be stopped by
phasers and shields, but it can be defeated by peace. 
(she tries again, but it's a very small field that passes through
Picard before he takes the device from her hands)

Captain's log, stardate 47169.2. Security Minister
Satok has taken Tallera into custody and begun a search for the rest of
the isolationists.

