TROI GIUSTI LAFORGE WORF PICARD RIKER BARAN DATA NARIK
codes engines antimatter mercenary second going betrayed sensors wanted

[Bridge]

GIUSTI: They're preparing to activate their warp
drive, Commander. 
WORF: Sir, we cannot be able to track them with our sensors if they go
to warp. I can still disable them 
DATA: I am aware of the tactical situation, Lieutenant. Let them go. 
(after the opening credits, at the science station) 
TROI: I've gone over every word, every inflection, every facial
response, and I still can't find any kind of code or hidden message. 
DATA: I agree the existence of such a message is remote, but I believe
we should check. 
TROI: I'll keep trying. 
WORF: Two starships have been sent to intercept the mercenaries at
Yadalla Prime and Draken Four, in case they attempt to attack those
planets. 
DATA: Inform Starfleet Command that we will hold this position until
further notice. 
WORF: So, we are just going to remain here? 
DATA: Yes, but we will continue to pursue all avenues of investigation.

WORF: If we had not let them to escape, this would not be necessary. 
DATA: That is correct. But I believe Commander Riker wanted us to let
them escape. 
LAFORGE: Commander, I think I've got something. I've been studying the
comm. link Commander Riker used to transmit his command codes. I didn't
see anything at first, but then I ran the transmission through a
subharmonic analysis. I found this. It was sent by the same carrier
wave as the command codes. 
TROI: It might be the message we've been looking for. 
DATA: Possibly. I will attempt to resequence the signal. Begin running
a search for a decryption key.

[Mercenary Bridge]

(at another planet) 
NARIK: I'm taking the engines offline. 
BARAN: How long will it take to repair our battle damage? 
NARIK: It will take at least five hours to replace the antimatter
containment unit. 
BARAN: You have three hours, Narik. One minute beyond that and you'll
answer for it with your life. I suppose I should thank you. None of us
would be alive if it weren't for you. 
RIKER: You're welcome. 
PICARD: What's wrong, Commander? You having second thoughts about
betraying your comrades? Because that's what you've done, betrayed
them. Betrayed them in order to save yourself. You used to be just a
second rate officer, now you're a traitor and a coward. How does that
feel? 
(Riker punches Picard) 
RIKER: I don't know. How did that feel? 
BARAN: That's enough. Galen, go down to the cargo hold and check out
those artefacts. Move.

