RIKER SATOK [on monitor] WORF [OC] TALLERA VEKOR [OC] PICARD SATOK
case death don centuries symbol insight able anxious think

[Ready room] 
WORF [OC]: Worf to Commander Riker. Minister Satok
of Vulcan Security is standing by on a secure channel. 
RIKER: Put it through in here. 
SATOK [on monitor]: Greetings, Commander. How may I be of service? 
RIKER: Minister, I thought I should let you know that the mercenary
ship which has been raiding planets in the Taugan sector is probably on
its way to Vulcan right now. 
SATOK [on monitor]: I do not understand. 
RIKER: I'm sorry. It's been a difficult couple of days. I know that one
of your operatives has been on a mercenary ship investigating the
possible re-assembly of a psionic resonator. I didn't want someone to
make a mistake and start firing at them when they approach your planet.

SATOK: Commander, I believe there is a problem. We have no operative
aboard a mercenary ship.

[Baran's quarters]

PICARD: According to Baran's logs, we are to
deliver the two pieces to the T'Karath Sanctuary on Vulcan. 
TALLERA: I know that place. It was an underground stronghold for one of
the factions during the last civil war. It's been abandoned for
centuries. 
PICARD: Galen to Bridge. Alter course for Vulcan. 
VEKOR [OC]: Understood. 
PICARD: Oh, I wonder if you can possibly help me with something. I have
been able to translate most of the writing on these two pieces For the
most part, they're warnings of death and destruction to anyone who
opposes the resonator, but I am not able to determine what appears on
the anterior side. For example, this symbol represents the Vulcan god
of war and this is the god of death, but if you look really carefully,
you can see a third symbol missing. Now that obviously should belong to
the final piece. Now what's odd about this is that the gods of death
and war would typically always stand alone on an artefact. They would
never be combined with a third glyph. 
TALLERA: Fascinating. But I am not an archaeological expert. 
PICARD: I'm really anxious to see the final artefact, because it might
provide a valuable insight into Vulcan mythology. 
TALLERA: When we arrive at Vulcan, I will take these pieces to a secure
holding area before going on to the Sanctuary. I prefer to go alone. It
will arouse less suspicion on the part of the isolationists. 
PICARD: Well there should be no problem about our entering orbit. I
asked Commander Riker to contact the Vulcan authorities from the
Enterprise and let them know that we were approaching. 
TALLERA: Why did you do that? 
PICARD: Well, I didn't want to risk a misunderstanding. Someone might
have mistaken this for an actual raid. 
TALLERA: It was a wise precaution. 
PICARD: Perhaps I should contact the Enterprise, have them meet us at
Vulcan just in case these isolationists try to escape. 
TALLERA: Your offer is appreciated but our security forces are more
than adequate. 
PICARD: I see. Do you think it's wise for you to go there alone? After
all, they were expecting Baran to show up.
Don't you think if I were to accompany you, it might seem more
plausible. 
TALLERA: Captain, I do understand your human emotional need to be there
at the final moment, but this is a Vulcan matter. 
PICARD: Of course. 
TALLERA: Thank you.

