RIKER WORF [OC] VEKOR PICARD TALLERA SATOK [on monitor] BARAN NARIK SATOK
codes assembly lead ll maintain need trying killed narik

[Mercenary Bridge]

BARAN: Set course three one zero mark two one five,
warp six. 
(the four raiders walk in) 
BARAN: Where is it? 
(Picard throws the stone to Baran) 
PICARD: I have something else for you, Baran. 
(Picard punches Baran) 
PICARD: Tell him what happened, Narik. 
NARIK: Riker turned on us. He tried to kill Galen before we beamed
back. 
PICARD: He might have killed all of us. And I believe he was acting
under direct orders, Baran. You betrayed us. This has gone far enough.
I think it is time that we had a new commander. Someone who will lead
us to those profits that we've been promised. 
BARAN: Oh, really? And who would that be, Galen? You? He's plotted this
all along, opposed me at every turn, endangered all of us by refusing
to follow his orders. 
PICARD: Follow your orders? The orders of a small man trying to fill a
role too big for him. I say it's time for a change. Who's with me? 
(everyone, by the looks of it) 
PICARD: It's over, Baran. 
BARAN: Not quite. As long as I have this, I'm still Captain of this
ship. 
PICARD: You can't kill all of us. You need us to run the ship more than
we need you to command it. 
BARAN: I don't have to kill you all. Just you, Galen. 
(Baran presses the button, then collapses in agony and dies) 
TALLERA: What happened? 
PICARD: I switched the transponder codes. Given his feelings about me,
it seemed a sensible thing to do. 
TALLERA: Baran was nothing. We have a mission to complete and the crew
needs a leader. 
(Picard shoots the control device) 
PICARD: There'll be no more punishment on this ship. Now, do your
duties and I'll see to it that we complete our mission and get our
payment. 
TALLERA: Remove that. 
VEKOR: Orders? 
PICARD: Maintain our present course and speed for now. I'm going to
find out when and where we're supposed to deliver our cargo. 
VEKOR: Aye, Captain.

[Ready room] 
WORF [OC]: Worf to Commander Riker. Minister Satok
of Vulcan Security is standing by on a secure channel. 
RIKER: Put it through in here. 
SATOK [on monitor]: Greetings, Commander. How may I be of service? 
RIKER: Minister, I thought I should let you know that the mercenary
ship which has been raiding planets in the Taugan sector is probably on
its way to Vulcan right now. 
SATOK [on monitor]: I do not understand. 
RIKER: I'm sorry. It's been a difficult couple of days. I know that one
of your operatives has been on a mercenary ship investigating the
possible re-assembly of a psionic resonator. I didn't want someone to
make a mistake and start firing at them when they approach your planet.

SATOK: Commander, I believe there is a problem. We have no operative
aboard a mercenary ship.

