RIKER LAFORGE WORF ENSIGN TALLERA [OC] BARAN DATA
bridge artefact analysis correct hours doubt ensure place think

[Baran's quarters]

TALLERA [OC]: One of the artefacts. 
BARAN: Good. Bring it to me immediately. Don't let anyone get near it. 
TALLERA [OC]: Understood. Tallera out. 
RIKER: That sounds like good news. 
BARAN: Very. It means we've completed half of what promises to be a
very profitable mission. And even better than that, I'm almost ready to
get rid of your friend Galen. 
RIKER: Really? 
BARAN: There's one more artefact to find. Once Galen confirms that it's
genuine, his usefulness on this ship will come to a very sudden end. 
RIKER: I can't say I'm sorry to hear that. 
BARAN: Galen might be a loud mouthed fool, but sometimes he's quite
perceptive. His observations about you, for instance. 
RIKER: Oh? 
BARAN: After what you did on Calder Two, I doubt if you have much of a
future in Starfleet. 
RIKER: Yes, I must say I've come to the same conclusion. 
BARAN: Well, assuming that you were not my prisoner, what would you do
now? 
RIKER: I guess I'd start looking for a new career. There must be a
place where someone with fifteen years of Starfleet technical knowledge
would be useful. You wouldn't happen to know a place like that? 
BARAN: Well, possibly. However, there's one thing that I have learned
on this ship, and that's to be cautious and never to blindly embrace
what might appear to be good fortune. And right now, you're a rather
large stroke of good luck. 
RIKER: I haven't exactly sworn my undying allegiance to you either,
Baran. For instance, I'd like to know a little bit more about the job. 
BARAN: Such as? 
RIKER: Such as what you meant by a very profitable mission. 
BARAN: Well, it's enough to know right now that your share will ensure
a very wealthy and long life far from the Federation. 
RIKER: Sounds promising. 
BARAN: It is, only you're going to have to earn it. And you can start
by putting aside your dislike for Galen and becoming his friend. 
RIKER: Why? 
BARAN: Galen has allies on this ship. They could cause trouble if I
decide to kill him. I want you to find out from him who they are. 
RIKER: Okay. 
BARAN: One more thing, Riker. When the time comes, I want you to kill
Galen.

[Bridge]

(science station) 
DATA: I have completed my analysis of the signal from the mercenary
ship. I believe these groupings represent bearings and coordinates
taken from their navigational system. 
LAFORGE: So you think this is their flight plan? 
DATA: Yes. If I am correct, the mercenary ship is heading toward these
coordinates in the Hyralan Sector. 
WORF: Their maximum speed is warp eight point seven. It will take them
at least fourteen hours to reach that position. 
LAFORGE: We could be there in five. 
DATA: Make it so. 
WORF: Finally. Set course for the Hyralan Sector and engage at warp
nine. 
ENSIGN: Aye, sir. 
DATA: Lieutenant, may I see you in the ready room? 
WORF: Of course.

