TROI GIUSTI WORF KORAL CRUSHER DATA

[Bridge]

GIUSTI: I'm picking up a small vessel bearing one
two seven mark three three five. 
DATA: Is it the mercenary ship? 
GIUSTI: No, sir. It's a Klingon ship. 
WORF: A Toron class shuttlecraft. One person. 
DATA: Open a channel. This is Lieutenant Commander Data of the
Federation Starship Enterprise. 
KORAL [on viewscreen]: Koral. 
DATA: I take it that is your name? May I inquire as to your
destination? 
KORAL [on viewscreen]: No. 
DATA: May I ask the purpose of your journey? 
KORAL [on viewscreen]: No. 
DATA: Perhaps I have not made our intentions clear. We are
investigating 
(transmission ends) 
DATA: He seems most uncooperative. 
TROI: He may have been curt, but he was also very worried and even a
little scared. 
WORF: Sir, may I recommend that we bring the shuttle aboard with our
tractor beam, search it, and interrogate Koral. 
DATA: According to the terms of the Klingon-Federation Treaty, Koral
has every right to free transit through Federation space. We cannot
board or search his vessel without cause. 
WORF: Yes, sir. However, the Treaty does give us the right to conduct
health and safety inspections of any ship in our space. 
TROI: Health and safety inspections? 
DATA: I am not sure that using this clause as an excuse to conduct a
search would be consistent with the spirit of the Treaty. 
WORF: Yes, sir. 
DATA: However, if Koral wishes to contest our actions he can file a
protest with the Judge Advocate General's office. Bring the shuttle
aboard. Then you and Doctor Crusher can begin the inspection. 
WORF: Aye, sir.

[Shuttlebay]

(Koral is the tallest Klingon in the galaxy,
standing head and shoulders above the shuttlecraft hatch, let alone
Worf) 
CRUSHER: Hello. I'm Doctor Crusher, and this is Lieutenant Worf. We're
here to conduct a health and safety inspection of your ship. 
KORAL: Health and safety inspection? 
CRUSHER: That's right. You know, radiation leaks, biochemical
contamination, other health hazards. Excuse me. 
(Crusher goes inside the shuttlecraft) 
CRUSHER: Well, no radiation so far. I'm sure you're glad to hear that.
Right.

