VEKOR PICARD TALLERA VEKOR [OC] NARIK
death accompany symbol able quarters time think narik care

[Baran's quarters]

PICARD: According to Baran's logs, we are to
deliver the two pieces to the T'Karath Sanctuary on Vulcan. 
TALLERA: I know that place. It was an underground stronghold for one of
the factions during the last civil war. It's been abandoned for
centuries. 
PICARD: Galen to Bridge. Alter course for Vulcan. 
VEKOR [OC]: Understood. 
PICARD: Oh, I wonder if you can possibly help me with something. I have
been able to translate most of the writing on these two pieces For the
most part, they're warnings of death and destruction to anyone who
opposes the resonator, but I am not able to determine what appears on
the anterior side. For example, this symbol represents the Vulcan god
of war and this is the god of death, but if you look really carefully,
you can see a third symbol missing. Now that obviously should belong to
the final piece. Now what's odd about this is that the gods of death
and war would typically always stand alone on an artefact. They would
never be combined with a third glyph. 
TALLERA: Fascinating. But I am not an archaeological expert. 
PICARD: I'm really anxious to see the final artefact, because it might
provide a valuable insight into Vulcan mythology. 
TALLERA: When we arrive at Vulcan, I will take these pieces to a secure
holding area before going on to the Sanctuary. I prefer to go alone. It
will arouse less suspicion on the part of the isolationists. 
PICARD: Well there should be no problem about our entering orbit. I
asked Commander Riker to contact the Vulcan authorities from the
Enterprise and let them know that we were approaching. 
TALLERA: Why did you do that? 
PICARD: Well, I didn't want to risk a misunderstanding. Someone might
have mistaken this for an actual raid. 
TALLERA: It was a wise precaution. 
PICARD: Perhaps I should contact the Enterprise, have them meet us at
Vulcan just in case these isolationists try to escape. 
TALLERA: Your offer is appreciated but our security forces are more
than adequate. 
PICARD: I see. Do you think it's wise for you to go there alone? After
all, they were expecting Baran to show up.
Don't you think if I were to accompany you, it might seem more
plausible. 
TALLERA: Captain, I do understand your human emotional need to be there
at the final moment, but this is a Vulcan matter. 
PICARD: Of course. 
TALLERA: Thank you.

[Mercenary Bridge]

VEKOR: We have entered orbit of Vulcan. 
PICARD: Tallera, I've decided on a change of plan. Take one of the
artefacts with you. Leave the other here. As soon as we have our
payment in full, we'll complete the delivery. 
TALLERA: That was not the agreement. 
PICARD: I realise that. But it's safer for all concerned to leave one
behind. 
TALLERA: They will not pay us until they get both pieces. 
PICARD: They've been waiting a long time for this. They're not going to
take any risks. Now, take one of the artefacts and beam down. 
TALLERA: That is all I was waiting for. Go to the navigational computer
and check file one three seven slash omega. You'll find a message
secretly transmitted to the Enterprise, containing our entire flight
plan. 
VEKOR: She's right. 
TALLERA: The message was sent by Galen. He's a Starfleet officer. 
PICARD: Tallera is right. But what she's not telling you is that those
artefacts she's holding are part of an incredibly powerful weapon.
There's no reward waiting for you down on the surface. As soon as she's
got those artefacts, she'll leave you behind to be captured by
Starfleet. 
VEKOR: I don't care what it is you want, Tallera. I don't care if
that's a weapon for your personal use or if you're really just making a
delivery as planned. All I care about is my money. So I propose a
compromise. Narik and I will go with you to the surface to guarantee
that we receive our payment. 
NARIK: After that, you can go anywhere you want. 
TALLERA: Agreed. Bring him as well. We'll use him as a hostage if
Starfleet arrives. If not, we'll kill him on the surface.

