RIKER PICARD TALLERA COMPUTER BARAN NARIK

[Mercenary Bridge]

(at another planet) 
NARIK: I'm taking the engines offline. 
BARAN: How long will it take to repair our battle damage? 
NARIK: It will take at least five hours to replace the antimatter
containment unit. 
BARAN: You have three hours, Narik. One minute beyond that and you'll
answer for it with your life. I suppose I should thank you. None of us
would be alive if it weren't for you. 
RIKER: You're welcome. 
PICARD: What's wrong, Commander? You having second thoughts about
betraying your comrades? Because that's what you've done, betrayed
them. Betrayed them in order to save yourself. You used to be just a
second rate officer, now you're a traitor and a coward. How does that
feel? 
(Riker punches Picard) 
RIKER: I don't know. How did that feel? 
BARAN: That's enough. Galen, go down to the cargo hold and check out
those artefacts. Move.

[Mercenary Cargo hold]

(Tallera enters) 
PICARD: You can tell Baran that I'm working as fast as I can. What? 
TALLERA: I'm trying to decide if you're incredibly stupid or incredibly
smart. Why didn't you continue to fire on the Enterprise when their
shields dropped? 
PICARD: You were there. The disruptors lost power. Computer, reset for
diagnostic of new sample. Begin scan. 
TALLERA: I've watched you handle the weapon systems before. You know
exactly how to bypass a problem like that.
And why do you continue to argue with Riker? It should be obvious that
by alienating Riker you also alienate Baran, and yet you continue to do
so. Why? 
COMPUTER: Scan complete. Terikon profile negative. 
PICARD: Computer, reset diagnostic for new sample and begin scan. Look
this isn't a Romulan labour camp. I don't have to answer your
questions. And I don't give a damn what you think. 
COMPUTER: Scan complete. Terikon profile positive. Ninety eight percent
probability of match. 
PICARD: Well, whatever it is we're looking for, it seems we've found
it. 
TALLERA: Tallera to Captain. 
BARAN [OC]: Yes, what is it? 
TALLERA: I'm in the cargo hold. Galen's made a positive Terikon match
on 
