TROI GIUSTI LAFORGE WORF PICARD TALLERA BARAN DATA NARIK
starships badly kind activate opening yadalla codes key feed

[Mercenary Bridge]

BARAN: Continue firing! 
PICARD: I've lost three plasma relays on the disruptors. Auxiliary
power is, is not available. 
BARAN: Transfer weapons control to my station. There's a way to bypass
the relays and feed power 
(another hit) 
NARIK: The antimatter containment units are starting to buckle! 
TALLERA: The Enterprise has been badly damaged but they still have
superior firepower. If we remain here, we will be destroyed. The
logical course of action is to withdraw. 
BARAN: We've done enough damage. Narik, set course one eight zero, mark
two one five. Warp six. Initiate.

[Bridge]

GIUSTI: They're preparing to activate their warp
drive, Commander. 
WORF: Sir, we cannot be able to track them with our sensors if they go
to warp. I can still disable them 
DATA: I am aware of the tactical situation, Lieutenant. Let them go. 
(after the opening credits, at the science station) 
TROI: I've gone over every word, every inflection, every facial
response, and I still can't find any kind of code or hidden message. 
DATA: I agree the existence of such a message is remote, but I believe
we should check. 
TROI: I'll keep trying. 
WORF: Two starships have been sent to intercept the mercenaries at
Yadalla Prime and Draken Four, in case they attempt to attack those
planets. 
DATA: Inform Starfleet Command that we will hold this position until
further notice. 
WORF: So, we are just going to remain here? 
DATA: Yes, but we will continue to pursue all avenues of investigation.

WORF: If we had not let them to escape, this would not be necessary. 
DATA: That is correct. But I believe Commander Riker wanted us to let
them escape. 
LAFORGE: Commander, I think I've got something. I've been studying the
comm. link Commander Riker used to transmit his command codes. I didn't
see anything at first, but then I ran the transmission through a
subharmonic analysis. I found this. It was sent by the same carrier
wave as the command codes. 
TROI: It might be the message we've been looking for. 
DATA: Possibly. I will attempt to resequence the signal. Begin running
a search for a decryption key.

