RIKER LAFORGE WORF PICARD FREUD DATA NAKAMURA

[Holodeck - Freud's consulting room]

FREUD: Tell me more about this cake. 
DATA: It is difficult to explain. Counsellor Troi's body was a cake. 
FREUD: Her upper body. Describe the knife you used to cut the
Counsellor. 
DATA: It had a black handle and a serrated blade, and it was quite
long. 
FREUD: How long? 
DATA: Twenty five centimetres in length. 
FREUD: And what happened next? 
DATA: One of the workmen pointed to her right shoulder. At that moment,
I had an overwhelming urge to cut a piece out of the cake. 
FREUD: And did you? 
DATA: Yes. As I began slicing the cake, she reacted as though I was
causing her pain. Yet I could not stop cutting. That is when I woke up.
Doctor Freud, I am curious. 
(Data starts to sit up from the couch and is gestured to lie down
again) 
DATA: I am curious. What do my nightmares mean? 
FREUD: I believe you are experiencing a classic dismemberment dream. Or
in your case, being a mechanical man, a dismantlement dream. 
DATA: I do not understand. 
FREUD: Your mechanistic qualities are trying to reassert themselves
over your human tendencies. Ego and id struggling for domination. The
workmen symbolise the ever present id constantly working to destroy the
ego. Now the image of Counsellor Troi, a female, is devoured by you,
clearly indicating an unconscious desire to possess your own mother. 
DATA: But I do not have a mother. 
FREUD: Do not interrupt. The knife in its violent connotation suggests
a certain feeling of sexual inadequacy. 
DATA: but I have no sexual desire. 
FREUD: Ach! Impotence on top of everything. It is all becoming clear to
me now. There might be a paper in this. 
DATA: I do not believe I am being helped by this session. 
FREUD: Classic transference. Your anger toward me is, in fact, the
animosity you feel toward your father. You are a polymorphously
perverse individual, Mister Data, and I recommend full psychoanalysis.
I believe I can fit you in next Tuesday. 
DATA: That will not be necessary. Computer, end programme.

[Bridge]

WORF: Captain, incoming message from Admiral
Nakamura. 
PICARD: On screen. 
PICARD: Admiral. 
NAKAMURA [on viewscreen]: Captain. We were expecting you this morning.
Is there a problem? 
PICARD: Actually, we have been experiencing a few minor difficulties
with our new warp core, but my Chief Engineer assures me that we will
be under way within the hour. 
NAKAMURA [on viewscreen]: You're not trying to avoid this particular
engagement, are you, Picard? 
PICARD: No, no, certainly not. I'm really looking forward to it. 
NAKAMURA [on viewscreen]: Good. I'll expect you soon. Nakamura out. 
RIKER: I think he's on to you, sir. 
LAFORGE [OC]: La Forge to Bridge. 
PICARD: Go ahead, Geordi.

[Engineering]

LAFORGE: We've just started it up, Captain. All
systems are holding steady. 
[Bridge]

LAFORGE [OC]: Ready when you are, sir. 
PICARD: Ensign Gates, set a course and engage. 
(this time they start to go, and then stop) 
[Engineering]

PICARD [OC]: Engineering, report. 
DATA: The warp field has collapsed, sir. 
LAFORGE: It looks like we've blown the entire power converter, Captain.
Impulse engines are down too. We're not going anywhere. But I know just
how to fix this. Give me two, three hours, tops. 
LAFORGE: Now what?

