LAFORGE PICARD WORKMAN FREUD CRUSHER [OC] CRUSHER DATA
warnings process flow nien know answer infestation bit captain

[Holodeck - Freud's office]

FREUD: I am Doctor Sigmund Freud. 
LAFORGE: How does he fit into all this? 
FREUD: If I were to interpret my own appearance in this dream, I would
say I am the symbolic representation of Data's unconscious mind trying
to warn him about the dangers he perceives around him. 
PICARD: You mean the interphasic organisms. 
FREUD: Of course. 
PICARD: Tell me, Doctor, how do we kill them? 
(telephone) 
FREUD: Answer it. Nien, nien, nien. Do not be so literal. When I say
answer it, I mean respond to it, to them. 
(the workmen enter) 
WORKMAN: Be quiet! 
(the workman shoots Freud then starts hacking at the plasma conduit) 
PICARD: What do they represent? 
LAFORGE: I don't know, but I do recognise that junction they're working
on. It's the plasma conduit we installed with the new warp core. 
PICARD: Respond? Respond to them? What does that mean? 
LAFORGE: What is it that you're doing? 
WORKMAN: Go away. Leave us alone. 
PICARD: Who are you? 
WORKMAN: We are your enemies. 
DATA: Stop. You must not hurt my friends. 
(Data emits the high-pitched sound) 
WORKMAN: Be quiet! 
PICARD: Data, the shrieking noise you made. It causes them pain. 
(Data repeats the sound) 
WORKMAN: Be quiet. 
(the workmen collapse) 
DATA: I believe I understand.

[Holodeck]

DATA: Geordi. 
LAFORGE: Yes, Data. 
DATA: You must adjust my positronic subprocessor to emit an interphasic
pulse. 
PICARD: Data, what's going on? 
DATA: The workmen in my dreams represent the organisms which are trying
to demolish the ship. The incessant ringing of the telephone, Freud's
cautions at the other end, were warnings of the dangers around us. 
PICARD: What about the shrieking noises that you made? 
DATA: My positronic subprocessor detected high frequency interphasic
signatures from the organisms, which were symbolically represented in
my dreams by a high shriek. 
PICARD: When you made those noises, the workmen reacted in pain. 
DATA: That is why I have asked Geordi to adjust my subprocessor. If I
can produce a high frequency interphasic pulse, it may have a similar
effect on the creatures. 
LAFORGE: We're ready. 
PICARD: Picard to Sickbay. Beverly, we're going to be sweeping the ship
with a high frequency IP pulse. Will you monitor the creatures for any
response? 
CRUSHER [OC]: Understood. 
(the noise goes beyond our hearing) 
[Sickbay]

(the creatures disappear under the blue light) 
CRUSHER: It's working, Captain. 
[Holodeck]

Captain's log, supplemental. The creatures
infesting the Enterprise have been completely eliminated. We believe
the infestation originated within the warp core we obtained on Starbase
eighty four.

[Engineering]

LAFORGE: This conduit was manufactured on Thanatos
Seven using a new interphasic fusion process. We think it was that
process which attracted the organisms to the conduit where they lay
dormant until we activated the warp core. That's also why we couldn't
get the core online. The creatures were disrupting the plasma flow. 
PICARD: How long before we have warp power again? 
LAFORGE: Well, we're going to have to manufacture a new conduit. That's
at least six hours work. 
PICARD: Six hour? The banquet will be completely over by then. That's
very unfortunate. 
LAFORGE: I can try and speed things up a bit. 
PICARD: No, no, no. I wouldn't want to sacrifice the safety of the
ship. 
LAFORGE: Understood, sir. 
