RIKER LAFORGE WORF PICARD FREUD [OC] CRUSHER DATA
sort straw say bed lounge range interpreting learn guard

[Observation Lounge]

RIKER: What are we dealing with here? Are these
creatures feeding on us? 
CRUSHER: Yes, in a very particular way. They appear to be extracting
our cellular peptides. It's roughly analogous to the way terran leeches
consume haemoglobin. If they're not removed soon, our bodies are going
to lose all their cellular cohesion. We'll collapse into nothing but a
few pounds of chemicals. 
PICARD: All right. Is there any way that we can affect these organisms?

LAFORGE: We've tried EM radiation, subspace fields, thermal protons,
nothing's worked. They seem to exist in some sort of interphasic state,
just beyond our range of visual and sensor acuity. The only way we can
see them is to use an IP scanner. Tricorders can't even pick them up. 
RIKER: Do we know where these things came from, Mister Worf? 
WORF: I scanned the vicinity with an IP scanner. There is no sign of
any similar creatures, or any unusual interphasic activity. 
PICARD: What about Mister Data? There must be some connection between
his odd behaviour and these creatures. Is he infested as well? 
CRUSHER: No. I scanned him, but I found nothing. 
PICARD: Data attacked Counsellor Troi because he saw a mouth on her
shoulder. And in that same area that we first saw one of the organisms.

RIKER: Data also saw a straw in my head and then Beverly discovered an
organism in the same place. 
LAFORGE: Those images are all part of Data's dream. Maybe somehow he's
unconsciously perceiving these creatures. 
PICARD: Then perhaps it is time that we took a closer look at Mister
Data's dreams.

[Data's quarters]

DATA: It is an interesting hypothesis. If I am
being affected by these interphasic creatures on an unconscious level,
it may also explain my waking dreams, and my subsequent anti-social
behaviour. 
LAFORGE: What we want to do, Data, is link your neural net into the
holodeck and have you activate your dream
programme, so as you dream we can observe the dream images. 
PICARD: Perhaps we can learn more about these creatures by interpreting
the symbols and images of your dreams. 
DATA: I see. The concept is similar to the method of directed dreaming.

PICARD: Exactly. How soon can you have the link ready? 
LAFORGE: We'd need about an hour to establish all the interface
parameters. 
PICARD: Make it so. In the meantime, Mister Data, I suggest that you
should prepare for bed.

[Holodeck]

(Data is wired up) 
LAFORGE: I think we're ready, Captain. The link is active. The holodeck
has been calibrated to Data's neural net. 
(the security guard leaves) 
PICARD: Ready, Mister Data? 
DATA: Yes, sir. 
PICARD: Normally, I would wish you pleasant dreams, but in this case,
bad dreams would be more helpful. 
DATA: I understand, sir. Initiating dream programme. Stand by. 
[Holodeck - corridor]

PICARD: Let's be very observant. Even the most
insignificant image could be a very important symbol. 
LAFORGE: Right. 
(Data walks slowly round the corner)
PICARD: Here he comes. 
DATA: Hello. 
PICARD: Can we speak to Data directly or would that wake him up? 
LAFORGE: He should be perceiving us as just another part of his dream.
Anything we say to him will be taken in that context. 
PICARD: You know, that sounds like a telephone ringer, but I don't see
a receiver. 
[Ten Forward]

(Crusher drinking Riker's brain, the Troi cake, all
as before) 
DATA: Cake? 
PICARD: Oh. Er, thank you. Look at that. Her right shoulder. That is
the same place that Data stabbed her. 
LAFORGE: In his waking dream he said that there was a mouth on her
shoulder. 
PICARD: They're both symbols of consumption. Mouth, food. Mister Data,
what kind of cake is this? 
DATA: It is cellular peptide cake. 
WORF: With mint frosting. 
LAFORGE: Cellular peptides. That's exactly what the creatures are
extracting. 
RIKER: Will someone answer that damn ringing! Captain, the ringing is
getting worse. 
PICARD: What could the ringing symbolise? A bell? Sound? An
old-fashioned way of communicating? 
CRUSHER: Do you want some? It's delicious. 
RIKER: Will somebody please get that! 
(Geordi answers the phone in Data's tummy) 
LAFORGE: Yes? It's for you. 
PICARD: Picard. 
FREUD [OC]: Kill them. 
PICARD: Kill who? 
FREUD [OC]: Kill them, before it is too late. 
PICARD: Who is this?

