TROI LAFORGE WORF PICARD MEDIC RIKER TYLER DATA

[Engineering]

PICARD: Have you tried reconfiguring the plasma
conduits? 
LAFORGE: Yes, Captain. Two hours ago. 
PICARD: What about the relays? Are you absolutely certain you don't
need a new phase invertor? 
DATA: I am currently running a level three diagnostic of the relays,
sir. We will have the results of the analysis in approximately ten
minutes. 
PICARD: I see. Oh, perhaps I could reconfigure these isolinear chips. 
LAFORGE: No, sir, please don't touch that. Captain, Commander Data and
I have the situation under control. Now, if you'd just let us care of
it, the work would go much faster. 
TYLER: Captain, we could use an extra hand moving the containment pods.
If it wouldn't be an imposition. 
PICARD: Oh, no, not at all. I'd be delighted. 
(Picard leaves with Tyler) 
LAFORGE: Good work, Tyler. I thought he'd never leave. Data, I want you
to give me a hand locking down this plasma conduit. Data? Data?

[Corridor]

(Troi has the feeling she's being followed)

[Turbolift]

TROI: Deck thirty six. 
(Data stops the doors closing) 
TROI: Hello, Data. Are you all right? 
(Data stares at her shoulder and raises the 'knife') 
TROI: What are you doing? 
DATA: Hold very still, Counsellor. 
TROI: No! 
(and Data stabs her)

[Corridor]

WORF: Ever since you gave Alexander that music
programme, he's been playing it all night, every night. 
RIKER: I just wanted to broaden his horizons. Besides, he likes it. 
WORF: It is screeching, pounding, dissonance. It is not music. 
RIKER: Worf, it's better than music, it's jazz. 
(the turbolift doors open, and Data approaches Riker with the raised
bloody implement. They restrain him) 
RIKER: Medical emergency. Deck seventeen, section three alpha. 
MEDIC [OC]: We're on our way. 
[Observation lounge]

DATA: I believe I had another waking dream, sir.
But this time, I had an uncontrollable urge to eliminate the image I
saw. 
PICARD: And what you saw was some sort of a mouth on Troi's shoulder? 
DATA: Yes, sir. For a reason I cannot explain, I had the need to
destroy it. 
RIKER: What about me? Did you see one of those mouths on my head as
well? 
DATA: No, sir. I saw a straw coming out of your head. 
PICARD: A straw? 
DATA: As I said before, these are all images I originally experienced
in my dream
programme. I do not have a rational explanation for them. 
PICARD: Mister La Forge? 
LAFORGE: Captain, we've run every possible diagnostic on Data's
positronic net we can think of. We can't find anything wrong. I could
run a subpolymer scan, but it would take some time to set up the
equipment. 
PICARD: Make it so. In the meantime, Mister Data, I'll have to relieve
you of duty and confine you to your quarters. 
DATA: A sensible precaution, sir.

