PICARD [OC] RIKER LAFORGE WORF PICARD LAFORGE [OC] FREUD [OC] TROI TYLER DATA
shut metallurgical takes worf cigar ready kill sigmund smells

[Bridge]

LAFORGE [OC]: Ready when you are, sir. 
PICARD: Ensign Gates, set a course and engage. 
(this time they start to go, and then stop) 
[Engineering]

PICARD [OC]: Engineering, report. 
DATA: The warp field has collapsed, sir. 
LAFORGE: It looks like we've blown the entire power converter, Captain.
Impulse engines are down too. We're not going anywhere. But I know just
how to fix this. Give me two, three hours, tops. 
LAFORGE: Now what?

[Bridge]

RIKER: Talk about going nowhere fast. 
PICARD: Mister Worf, open a channel to Starbase two nineteen. Advise
Admiral Nakamura I'll be a little later than I thought. 
WORF: Aye, sir. 
[Engineering]

(Tyler appears at Geordi's elbow) 
LAFORGE: Tyler, how're you coming with that relay diagnostic? 
TYLER: Almost done, sir. Excuse me I need the plasma inverter. 
(she reaches between Geordi and Data, very close, takes the tool and
leaves) 
DATA: It appears Ensign Tyler still has a crush on you. It is clear you
did not speak to her. 
LAFORGE: No, Data, I haven't had the time. Listen, I want you to take
this brace coil and run a metallurgical scan on it for me. See if there
are any microfractures. 
(Data stares at the tool with its serrated teeth) 
LAFORGE: Something wrong, Data? 
DATA: I am reminded of a recent dream. This brace is reminiscent of 
(Data sees a mouth with teeth on the back of Geordi's neck. He backs
away then hears the telephone. Going looking for it, Engineering is
empty.) 
RIKER: Are you going to answer that, Commander? 
(Riker has a straw sticking out of his temple) 
RIKER: What are you waiting for? Answer it. 
(Data removes the telephone receiver from his stomach) 
DATA: Hello? 
FREUD [OC]: Kill them. You must kill them all before it's too late. 
LAFORGE: Data. Data, what's wrong? 
DATA: I do not know.

[Troi's office]

(Data is still holding the brace coil) 
DATA: Everything seems to remind me of the nightmare. Objects, sounds,
smells. And now I have seen elements of the dream in a waking state. I
cannot explain it. 
TROI: Data, if you were one of my human patients, I might be concerned
right now. I'd say you had a waking dream or an hallucination. But
you're not human. I think we might be looking at some kind of
technological problem. 
DATA: I have run three complete self diagnostics. All of my systems are
functioning normally. Perhaps Doctor Freud was correct. The knife I
dreamed about is the
embodiment of my unconscious desire to inflict violence. 
TROI: Data, even Freud said, sometimes a cigar is just a cigar. But the
bottom line is, I think you're developing an almost obsessive interest
in your own inner workings. I'd almost call it the beginnings of a
neurosis. 
DATA: That is not possible. 
TROI: Why not? You've eliminated all the technical explanations. And it
makes sense that as your neural net becomes more complex, more human,
that you might experience the same kind of psychological complexities
as a human. 
DATA: Do you really think it is possible? 
TROI: Data, you must be the first person who's come into my office and
been excited at the prospect of a new neurosis. But yes, I do think
it's possible, and I'd like to start counselling you on a regular
basis. 
DATA: Daily? 
TROI: No, we'll start weekly. And as a first step, I'd like you to shut
down your dream
programme until our next session, just to be on the safe side. Give
yourself a chance to reflect on this experience. 
DATA: Thank you, Counsellor. I look forward to our next meeting. 
TROI: And Data? Next time, see me before you see Sigmund.

