TROI LAFORGE WORF WORKMAN RIKER FREUD DATA

[Data's quarters]

(Data is closely gazing at Spot lying on the bed
when the doorbell rings) 
DATA: Enter. 
TROI: Hello, Data. 
DATA: Counsellor. 
TROI: What are you doing? 
DATA: I have been watching Spot sleep. In the past fifteen minutes, he
has had twelve muscles spasms, which indicates he was dreaming. I have
often wondered what Spot dreams about. His twitching and his rapid
breathing would seem to suggest anxiety, but Spot has never seen a
mouse or any other form of rodentia. He has never encountered an
insect, or been chased by a canine. 
TROI: I understand you've had some interesting dreams recently. Geordi
was worried about you and he wanted me to check in and see how you were
doing. 
DATA: That was very thoughtful of him. I've been debating whether or
not to initiate another dream sequence. 
TROI: Because of the nightmares? 
DATA: I have found them to be quite unsettling. 
TROI: Data, you shouldn't be afraid of dark imagery in your dreams.
It's a natural expression of your unconscious, if you have an
unconscious. I'm not really sure how your positronic brain works but if
it's anything like ours, then there's part of you that's trying to
express itself through your dream state. And I think you should allow
yourself to experience it. As Sigmund Freud said, dreams are the royal
road to the knowledge of the mind. 
DATA: Thank you, Counsellor. I believe I will initiate a dream
programme now. 
TROI: Let me know how it goes. Goodnight, Data. 
DATA: Goodnight, Counsellor. Goodnight, Spot. 
(Data plumps the pillow, gets under the sheet fully
clothed,kicking
Spot off, and approximates a yawn) 
DATA: Computer, dim lights.

[Ten Forward]

(Data's dream. Worf is eating a piece of blue cake
decorated with a comm. badge) 
WORF: Mmm. Delicious. 
DATA: What kind of cake are you eating? 
WORF: It is cellular peptide cake with mint frosting. Would you like a
bite? 
(the telephone is ringing) 
DATA: No, thank you. Excuse me, Mister Worf. 
(Beverly is drinking Riker's brain through a straw) 
RIKER: Aren't you going to answer that, Mister Data? 
DATA: Sir? 
RIKER: That damn ringing. Answer it, will you? 
DATA: Yes, sir. 
(the workmen are leaning over something) 
DATA: Please identify yourselves. I must know what you are trying to
(high-pitched sound) 
WORKMAN: Be quiet! 
(the workman hands Data a cake knife and beckons him forward. Troi is a
torso-shaped cake with a slice cut out of her where the comm. badge
would have been) 
TROI: Please, don't hurt me, Data. 
DATA: I am sorry, Counsellor. 
TROI: No! Don't! No! No! Data! 
(Data cuts into the cake) 
[Data's quarters]

TROI: Data! Data! 
(Data wakes to see Geordi, Worf and Troi standing over him) 
DATA: What is wrong? 
TROI: We've been trying to wake you up for the last five minutes. 
LAFORGE: When you didn't show up on time in Engineering, I got worried.

DATA: My internal chronometer was supposed to wake me thirty five
minutes ago. 
WORF: You must have overslept. 
DATA: That is not possible. Something is wrong.

[Engineering]

LAFORGE: I can't find anything wrong with your
internal time base. As far as I can tell, your primary systems check
out fine. 
DATA: I will compare my autonomic logs with the ship's chronometer.
Perhaps we have overlooked something. 
LAFORGE: You know, Data, there's an awful lot we don't know about your
dream programme. Maybe it was designed to cause side effects. I mean,
for all we know, Doctor Soong might have intended for you to oversleep
from time to time. It's part of the human experience. 
DATA: It is a possibility. However, I would prefer to make certain
there are no anomalies in my neural net. 
LAFORGE: You know, I'm curious. What were you dreaming about when we
woke you up? 
DATA: I have not fully assimilated its impact. I would prefer to study
the images further before discussing them. 
LAFORGE: Sounds like it must have been pretty strange. 
DATA: Strange is not a sufficient adjective to describe the experience.

[Holodeck - Freud's consulting room]

FREUD: Tell me more about this cake. 
DATA: It is difficult to explain. Counsellor Troi's body was a cake. 
FREUD: Her upper body. Describe the knife you used to cut the
Counsellor. 
DATA: It had a black handle and a serrated blade, and it was quite
long. 
FREUD: How long? 
DATA: Twenty five centimetres in length. 
FREUD: And what happened next? 
DATA: One of the workmen pointed to her right shoulder. At that moment,
I had an overwhelming urge to cut a piece out of the cake. 
FREUD: And did you? 
DATA: Yes. As I began slicing the cake, she reacted as though I was
causing her pain. Yet I could not stop cutting. That is when I woke up.
Doctor Freud, I am curious. 
(Data starts to sit up from the couch and is gestured to lie down
again) 
DATA: I am curious. What do my nightmares mean? 
FREUD: I believe you are experiencing a classic dismemberment dream. Or
in your case, being a mechanical man, a dismantlement dream. 
DATA: I do not understand. 
FREUD: Your mechanistic qualities are trying to reassert themselves
over your human tendencies. Ego and id struggling for domination. The
workmen symbolise the ever present id constantly working to destroy the
ego. Now the image of Counsellor Troi, a female, is devoured by you,
clearly indicating an unconscious desire to possess your own mother. 
DATA: But I do not have a mother. 
FREUD: Do not interrupt. The knife in its violent connotation suggests
a certain feeling of sexual inadequacy. 
DATA: but I have no sexual desire. 
FREUD: Ach! Impotence on top of everything. It is all becoming clear to
me now. There might be a paper in this. 
DATA: I do not believe I am being helped by this session. 
FREUD: Classic transference. Your anger toward me is, in fact, the
animosity you feel toward your father. You are a polymorphously
perverse individual, Mister Data, and I recommend full psychoanalysis.
I believe I can fit you in next Tuesday. 
DATA: That will not be necessary. Computer, end programme.

