PICARD [OC] RIKER LAFORGE PICARD TYLER DATA
ago thank command behalf let perfectly check came speak

[Data's quarters]

(Data wakes from his nightmare)

Captain's log, stardate 47225.7. Commander La Forge
has completed the installation of our new warp core. We are preparing
to test its capabilities.

[Bridge]

(Enterprise leaves Spacedock) 
RIKER: Something wrong, sir? 
PICARD: I just got a message from Starfleet command. 
RIKER: Bad news? 
PICARD: You could say that. I've been invited to the annual Starfleet
Admiral's banquet. 
RIKER: My condolences. 
PICARD: I've managed to avoid it for the past six years, but now it
would seem my luck has run out. I can't think of anything more tedious.
Fifty Admirals shaking hands, making dull conversation, uninteresting
food, boring speeches. 
RIKER: Can't you think of some excuse to get out of it? 
PICARD: After six years, Number One, I don't think I have any excuses
left.

[Engineering]

DATA: Geordi, have you ever had a nightmare? 
LAFORGE: Yeah, sure, Data. Everybody does from time to time. 
DATA: I have had one hundred eleven dreams since I first discovered
this programme
nine months ago. In all of that time, I have never experienced such
strange and disturbing imagery. I believe it was a nightmare. 
LAFORGE: Nightmares are part of dreaming, Data. Maybe you've just
discovered another new level to your
programme. 
DATA: Perhaps. I have also noted that I am spending an inordinate
amount of time thinking about nightmare imagery. One could almost say I
am preoccupied. 
LAFORGE: Well, it's perfectly normal, Data. Sometimes when I have a
nightmare, I can't shake that weird feeling for a couple of days. 
TYLER: Commander La Forge? 
LAFORGE: Speaking of nightmares. 
TYLER: (a petite dark lady) I just finished recalibrating the starboard
EPS module. 
LAFORGE: That's great, Ensign. Thank you. 
TYLER: It's just like you said. Reset the power tap and the module came
right online. You have such a wonderful grasp of engineering
principles. I'm learning so much just by being around you. 
LAFORGE: I'll tell you what. Why don't you help Farrell check the
deuterium cartridges. I'm just about to bring the warp core online. All
right?
TYLER: Anything you say. 
(Tyler goes off with a big smile) 
DATA: Geordi, you do not seem to appreciate Ensign Tyler's enthusiasm. 
LAFORGE: She's enthusiastic all right. About me. 
DATA: I do not understand. 
LAFORGE: She's got a crush on me, Data. 
DATA: You do not share her affection? 
LAFORGE: Exactly. And quite frankly, it's beginning to get a little bit
uncomfortable. 
DATA: I believe I understand. You are concerned about unintentionally
hurting Ensign Tyler's feelings. 
LAFORGE: Yeah, something like that. 
DATA: It would appear that you require a third party to intervene on
your behalf. I will be happy to speak to her. 
LAFORGE: No, Data! I'll take care of it myself. Thanks. 
DATA: Geordi, when I first awoke from my nightmare, there was a brief
moment when I 
PICARD [OC]: Bridge to Commander La Forge. What's our status? 
LAFORGE: We're ready to bring the new core online, Captain. Stand by.
All right, let's do it. Initializing deuterium infusion sequence. It's
a thing of beauty, isn't it? Now let's see how fast she can run. La
Forge to Bridge. 
