TROI LAFORGE WORF PICARD RIKER CRUSHER DATA

[Observation lounge]

DATA: I believe I had another waking dream, sir.
But this time, I had an uncontrollable urge to eliminate the image I
saw. 
PICARD: And what you saw was some sort of a mouth on Troi's shoulder? 
DATA: Yes, sir. For a reason I cannot explain, I had the need to
destroy it. 
RIKER: What about me? Did you see one of those mouths on my head as
well? 
DATA: No, sir. I saw a straw coming out of your head. 
PICARD: A straw? 
DATA: As I said before, these are all images I originally experienced
in my dream
programme. I do not have a rational explanation for them. 
PICARD: Mister La Forge? 
LAFORGE: Captain, we've run every possible diagnostic on Data's
positronic net we can think of. We can't find anything wrong. I could
run a subpolymer scan, but it would take some time to set up the
equipment. 
PICARD: Make it so. In the meantime, Mister Data, I'll have to relieve
you of duty and confine you to your quarters. 
DATA: A sensible precaution, sir.

[Sickbay]

TROI: (waking) Data. 
CRUSHER: Deanna, you're in Sickbay. It's all right. 
TROI: Data. 
CRUSHER: He's not here. Just try to relax. This vascular pad has healed
the wound, but you've lost a lot of blood so I would like you to lie
still for a while. 
(Crusher removes the device from Troi's shoulder, and there's a mark
underneath) 
CRUSHER: That's odd. There shouldn't be any discoloration after the
treatment. This looks like some sort of rash. 
TROI: What is it? 
CRUSHER: I'm picking up cellular degradation. But it doesn't appear to
be related to the lacerations. There's also some kind of residual
interphasic signature. Nurse, bring me an interphasic scanner. I want
to take a closer look at this. 
[Data's quarters]

WORF: Commander. I will have to confiscate your
sidearm. 
DATA: Of course. (hands over the phaser) May I ask a personal favour? 
WORF: Yes. 
DATA: Will you take care of Spot for me? 
WORF: Your animal? 
DATA: I am afraid if I have another waking dream, I might injure him. 
WORF: Of course. Spot, come here. 
DATA: Unlike a canine, Spot does not respond to verbal commands. (hands
him to Worf who holds him at arms length) Goodbye, Spot. He will need
to be fed once a day. He prefers feline supplement number twenty five. 
WORF: I understand. 
DATA: And he will require water. And you must provide him with a sand
box. And you must talk to him. Tell him he is a pretty cat, and a good
cat. 
WORF: I will feed him. 
DATA: Perhaps that will be enough. 
(Worf leaves, sneezing)

[Sickbay]

CRUSHER: Captain, we have a problem. Take a look at
this. Her tissue is breaking down on a cellular level and it's
spreading. At first I thought it was a rash from the coil brace she was
stabbed with, but when I used the interphasic scanner, I found this. 
(a blue light shows a creature eating Troi's skin) 
PICARD: What is it? 
CRUSHER: The question is, what are they? 
(there's one on her own arm) 
CRUSHER: I've tested all the medical staff and I've found them on
almost everyone so far. The cellular decay is accelerating in all
cases. I haven't found a way to stop it or even slow it down. (there's
one on Riker's temple) Looks like you're infected too. The organisms
appear to be attached to our epidermal layers with osmotic tendrils.
They're tapping directly into the bloodstream. (Picard has one on his
throat) And from what I can tell, they're spreading. 
[Observation Lounge]

RIKER: What are we dealing with here? Are these
creatures feeding on us? 
CRUSHER: Yes, in a very particular way. They appear to be extracting
our cellular peptides. It's roughly analogous to the way terran leeches
consume haemoglobin. If they're not removed soon, our bodies are going
to lose all their cellular cohesion. We'll collapse into nothing but a
few pounds of chemicals. 
PICARD: All right. Is there any way that we can affect these organisms?

LAFORGE: We've tried EM radiation, subspace fields, thermal protons,
nothing's worked. They seem to exist in some sort of interphasic state,
just beyond our range of visual and sensor acuity. The only way we can
see them is to use an IP scanner. Tricorders can't even pick them up. 
RIKER: Do we know where these things came from, Mister Worf? 
WORF: I scanned the vicinity with an IP scanner. There is no sign of
any similar creatures, or any unusual interphasic activity. 
PICARD: What about Mister Data? There must be some connection between
his odd behaviour and these creatures. Is he infested as well? 
CRUSHER: No. I scanned him, but I found nothing. 
PICARD: Data attacked Counsellor Troi because he saw a mouth on her
shoulder. And in that same area that we first saw one of the organisms.

RIKER: Data also saw a straw in my head and then Beverly discovered an
organism in the same place. 
LAFORGE: Those images are all part of Data's dream. Maybe somehow he's
unconsciously perceiving these creatures. 
PICARD: Then perhaps it is time that we took a closer look at Mister
Data's dreams.

