PICARD [OC] TROI LAFORGE PICARD LAFORGE [OC] DATA
going goes unconscious twitching does closely enter wanted hello

[Bridge]

LAFORGE [OC]: Warp power at your discretion,
Captain. 
PICARD: Acknowledged. Ensign Gates, set course for Starbase two
nineteen, warp six. Engage. 
(the lady Ensign does so, but the stars don't change) 
PICARD: Engage. Bridge to Engineering. Mister La Forge, why isn't my
ship 
[Engineering]

PICARD [OC]: Moving? 
LAFORGE: I'm on it, sir. There's a warp plasma conduit out of
alignment, but I think I've got it fixed now. Ready, sir. 
[Bridge]

PICARD: Very well. Ensign Gates? 
(all the lights go out) 
PICARD: Mister La Forge? 
[Engineering]

LAFORGE: Stand by, Captain. 
DATA: Captain, I am taking the warp-coil engines offline. 
(the lights come back on) 
LAFORGE: La Forge to Bridge. I'm sorry, sir, but we're going to have to
reconfigure this plasma conduit. It's going to take at least a couple
of hours, sir.

[Data's quarters]

(Data is closely gazing at Spot lying on the bed
when the doorbell rings) 
DATA: Enter. 
TROI: Hello, Data. 
DATA: Counsellor. 
TROI: What are you doing? 
DATA: I have been watching Spot sleep. In the past fifteen minutes, he
has had twelve muscles spasms, which indicates he was dreaming. I have
often wondered what Spot dreams about. His twitching and his rapid
breathing would seem to suggest anxiety, but Spot has never seen a
mouse or any other form of rodentia. He has never encountered an
insect, or been chased by a canine. 
TROI: I understand you've had some interesting dreams recently. Geordi
was worried about you and he wanted me to check in and see how you were
doing. 
DATA: That was very thoughtful of him. I've been debating whether or
not to initiate another dream sequence. 
TROI: Because of the nightmares? 
DATA: I have found them to be quite unsettling. 
TROI: Data, you shouldn't be afraid of dark imagery in your dreams.
It's a natural expression of your unconscious, if you have an
unconscious. I'm not really sure how your positronic brain works but if
it's anything like ours, then there's part of you that's trying to
express itself through your dream state. And I think you should allow
yourself to experience it. As Sigmund Freud said, dreams are the royal
road to the knowledge of the mind. 
DATA: Thank you, Counsellor. I believe I will initiate a dream
programme now. 
TROI: Let me know how it goes. Goodnight, Data. 
DATA: Goodnight, Counsellor. Goodnight, Spot. 
(Data plumps the pillow, gets under the sheet fully
clothed,kicking
Spot off, and approximates a yawn) 
DATA: Computer, dim lights.

