TROI MAQUES PICARD LWAXANA HEDRIL CRUSHER
plant unexpected communication yesterday experience low resin talk finger

[Sickbay]

LWAXANA: I don't know what got into me. Please,
tell Will how sorry I am. 
CRUSHER: You're fine, but your psilosynine levels are a little low. 
LWAXANA: Psilo-what? 
TROI: It's a neurotransmitter involved in telepathy. 
CRUSHER: It's been depleted by your work with the Cairn. You're going
to have to try to avoid telepathic communication for a while. 
LWAXANA: I can't. 
CRUSHER: Why? 
LWAXANA: We only have three days left and the Cairn have so much to
learn. 
CRUSHER: Lwaxana, I'm sorry, but you're going to have to take some time
and rest. 
TROI: Maybe I can help with the Cairn. 
LWAXANA: No, you're only half Betazoid, dear. And you have no
experience with their form of telepathy. 
TROI: Then I won't use telepathy. We'll work verbally. 
LWAXANA: I suppose we could do that. And if they don't understand
something I'll explain it to them telepathically. 
TROI: No, you'll work verbally too. The point is for you to get some
rest, mother. Besides, it'll do them good to have to figure things out
with words. 
LWAXANA: I suppose you're right.

[Arboretum]

(two children are rolling a ball by a small pool) 
TROI: This is the ship's arboretum. 
HEDRIL: Arbor means tree. 
TROI: Very good, Hedril. This is where people come to relax, enjoy
themselves in a natural setting. 
(Maques pricks his finger on a rose thorn) 
TROI: Flowers of all hue, and without thorn the rose. It's an old earth
poem by John Milton. 
MAQUES: Please, what is a poem? 
TROI: Poetry is an art form that uses words, put together in new and
unexpected ways, sometimes in rhyme. Milton was speculating that in
Heaven, roses wouldn't have thorns. 
HEDRIL: Heaven? 
TROI: Oh. Er, Heaven is. Well, it's, how can I put it? 
(Maques looks at Lwaxana) 
MAQUES: Yes, I see. Thank you. Heaven. 
TROI: Mother, you're supposed to be avoiding telepathy. 
LWAXANA: I'm only trying to help, dear. 
TROI: You don't look well. 
LWAXANA: I'm just tired. Maybe I'll sit down. 
(Hedril goes to play with the other children) 
TROI: Don't worry she'll be fine. This is something I think you'll find
interesting. It's a jewel plant from Folnar Three. The plant secretes a
resin which is collected within the blossom. By the time the bloom has
faded, the resin has hardened into a rare and beautiful gem. 
(Hedril is walking on the stones around the pond. She falls into the
water, and stands up giggling. It's about 6 inches deep.) 
TROI: Mother! 
(Lwaxana is out cold on the ground) 
TROI: Mother? Troi to Sickbay. Medical emergency in the arboretum. 
[Sickbay]

CRUSHER: She's not responding to cortical
stimulation. I'm not sure what else I can do. 
TROI: I don't understand. She was fine just yesterday. 
CRUSHER: It's so strange. It's almost as if her brain has shut itself
down. 
PICARD: Is there a physiological cause? 
CRUSHER: I'm running a subneural scan. As far as I can see there's no
tissue damage, no neurochemical imbalance, no sign of infection,
nothing. 
PICARD: Yet her neural activity is practically non-existent. 
CRUSHER: The only exception is in the paracortex. Activity there is
almost off the scale. 
TROI: The paracortex is the Betazoid telepathic lobe. She communicated
with Maques telepathically just before she fell. 
PICARD: Might there be some side effect of Cairn telepathy of which
we're unaware? 
CRUSHER: It's a possibility. 
PICARD: I think it's time that you and I had a talk with Maques.

