TROI IAN MAQUES PICARD LWAXANA [OC] CRUSHER
real used room concerned finding connection sleep walks baby

[Sickbay]

CRUSHER: I'll be monitoring her throughout the
entire procedure. If anything goes wrong, Maques can break the
telepathic link. 
MAQUES: Your mother. Part of her is very frightened. She may resist
you. 
TROI: I understand.

[Corridor]

LWAXANA [OC]: Help me. 
TROI: Mother? 
LWAXANA [OC]: Help me. 
(there's the repeated sound of something falling into water) 
PICARD: Counsellor? Can you hear me? 
TROI: Captain? 
PICARD: Deanna, Doctor Crusher's become concerned that your
paracortical readings have become erratic. 
TROI: Are you talking to me from Sickbay? 
PICARD: Yes. I want you to sever your connection to your mother. 
TROI: Why don't you ask Maques to do it? 
PICARD: I'm asking you. That is an order, Counsellor. 
TROI: You're not Captain Picard. 
PICARD: (with Lwaxana's voice) Leave me alone, please. 
(Troi walks on down the corridor until a wolf blocks her way) 
TROI: This isn't real. None of this is real. 
(but when it snarls, she turns and runs, and the wolf follows. Troi
gets into a room just before it catches her)

[Nursery]

(there's sunshine and foliage outside the windows,
toys in the room, and a man in a movie-style uniform) 
IAN: Deanna. 
TROI: Daddy? 
IAN: Look at you. You've become a beautiful woman 
TROI: Don't do this. 
IAN: I'm sorry I had to go away when you were so little. I didn't want
to. 
TROI: You're not my father. You're part of my mother's mind. What is
this place? 
IAN: This is our house near Lake El'nar on Betazed. We used to live
here. Deanna, let's not waste this chance. I want to hear everything
about you. 
TROI: Did I live here? 
IAN: For a while when you were a baby. You were such a beautiful baby.
Your mother and I loved you so much. 
TROI: I don't remember these toys. 
IAN: I bet you don't remember me singing you to sleep at night either,
but I did. 
TROI: I do remember. I always felt safe when you sang to me. 
IAN: There was one song you always asked me to sing. You couldn't fall
asleep unless you heard it. 
TROI: Down in the valley. 
IAN: Yes. (sings) Down in the valley, valley so low. Hang your head
over, hear the wind blow. 
TROI: No, you're just trying to keep me here. Keep me from finding
something. 
IAN: Your mother doesn't want to see you, Deanna. 
TROI: I have to help her. 
IAN: If you want to help her, leave. Let her have peace. 
TROI: She called out to me. She does want me to help. 
IAN: Stay with me, just a little while. Deanna, it's been so long.
We'll never have this chance again. 
TROI: Goodbye, Daddy.

