TROI MAQUES PICARD LWAXANA HEDRIL CRUSHER DATA
barrier dream analysis lounge coming ask believe true happened

[Corridor]

(the sound of water again, then Hedril as a
Betazoid child) 
TROI: Hedril. 
(Lwaxana comes around the corner) 
TROI: Mother. 
LWAXANA: Get away from her!

[Sickbay]

TROI: No!

[Observation lounge]

TROI: Hedril, I asked your father to bring you here
because I wanted to talk to you about something. You know that
Lwaxana's sick, don't you? 
HEDRIL: Yes. Is it my fault? 
TROI: No, not at all. But I believe that she's been thinking about you.
Do you know why? 
HEDRIL: I make her sad. 
TROI: Why do you say that? 
HEDRIL: Because it's true. 
TROI: Do you have any idea why Hedril would make my mother sad? 
MAQUES: No. 
TROI: Well, thank you for coming to talk to us. I'll see you later, all
right? 
HEDRIL: Counsellor, I hope your mother gets better. 
TROI: Thank you, Hedril. So do I. 
(Hedril and Maques leave) 
TROI: I just don't understand how she fits in to all this. 
CRUSHER: And I haven't found a physiological cause for what's happened
to your mother, which makes me feel that Maques was right when he said
that your mother's condition was precipitated by a traumatic event. 
PICARD: Could this event have involved Hedril? 
TROI: I don't think so. My mother never mentioned her. 
CRUSHER: Does your mother keep personal logs or a journal? 
TROI: Yes, she does. I'll contact Mister Homn on Betazed and ask him to
transmit a copy as soon as possible. There may be some clues there. 
DATA: Perhaps we are being too literal. I have recently learned in my
study of dream analysis that people who appear in a dream can sometimes
represent different aspects of the person who is dreaming. 
TROI: That's right. A child might represent vulnerability. Hedril may
depict some fragile part of my mother. 
PICARD: A part that she's protecting. You said that everything you
encountered when you were in her mind was a barrier of one kind or
another. 
TROI: Yes. You, the wolf, my father. It was though she were summoning
all her defences to keep me away. But keep me away from what? What is
she protecting?

