LWAXANA [OC] PICARD TROI CRUSHER MAQUES
real entire like traumatic didn direct repeated walks ask

[Observation lounge]

PICARD: Maques, what were you doing in Sickbay? 
MAQUES: Helping. Trying to help Lwaxana. 
TROI: How? What were you trying to do? 
MAQUES: I was. She was. You, Deanna. Maybe you. 
TROI: Yes? 
MAQUES: You must. How can I explain 
TROI: Tell me telepathically. 
(the direct stare) 
TROI: Maques believes my mother's psyche has collapsed in on itself.
That for some reason, she has retreated into her metaconscious mind. 
PICARD: Was he trying to contact her telepathically? 
TROI: Yes. He was able to access images being generated by her
metaconscious, but he couldn't make any sense of them. 
MAQUES: I did not understand. 
TROI: He saw faces he didn't recognize, events he couldn't interpret. 
CRUSHER: If we could decipher these images, we might be able to
determine whether or not your mother's condition was induced by a
traumatic event. 
TROI: Maques feels he can provide a telepathic bridge that will allow
me to access my mother's metaconscious. If he can, I might be able to
find out what happened to her. 
PICARD: And if you succeed, can you use that information to help your
mother? 
TROI: I'm not sure. But I do know that there's a part of her that wants
to be helped. When I tried to contact her telepathically, I heard a
voice calling out to me. 
PICARD: If her psyche has collapsed in on itself, could accessing her
mind pose any danger to you? 
TROI: There's no way to know. I'd like to try. 
[Sickbay]

CRUSHER: I'll be monitoring her throughout the
entire procedure. If anything goes wrong, Maques can break the
telepathic link. 
MAQUES: Your mother. Part of her is very frightened. She may resist
you. 
TROI: I understand.

[Corridor]

LWAXANA [OC]: Help me. 
TROI: Mother? 
LWAXANA [OC]: Help me. 
(there's the repeated sound of something falling into water) 
PICARD: Counsellor? Can you hear me? 
TROI: Captain? 
PICARD: Deanna, Doctor Crusher's become concerned that your
paracortical readings have become erratic. 
TROI: Are you talking to me from Sickbay? 
PICARD: Yes. I want you to sever your connection to your mother. 
TROI: Why don't you ask Maques to do it? 
PICARD: I'm asking you. That is an order, Counsellor. 
TROI: You're not Captain Picard. 
PICARD: (with Lwaxana's voice) Leave me alone, please. 
(Troi walks on down the corridor until a wolf blocks her way) 
TROI: This isn't real. None of this is real. 
(but when it snarls, she turns and runs, and the wolf follows. Troi
gets into a room just before it catches her)

