TROI MAQUES PICARD HEDRIL CRUSHER DATA
containing remember saw reviewed better stardate birth home dream

[Observation lounge]

TROI: Hedril, I asked your father to bring you here
because I wanted to talk to you about something. You know that
Lwaxana's sick, don't you? 
HEDRIL: Yes. Is it my fault? 
TROI: No, not at all. But I believe that she's been thinking about you.
Do you know why? 
HEDRIL: I make her sad. 
TROI: Why do you say that? 
HEDRIL: Because it's true. 
TROI: Do you have any idea why Hedril would make my mother sad? 
MAQUES: No. 
TROI: Well, thank you for coming to talk to us. I'll see you later, all
right? 
HEDRIL: Counsellor, I hope your mother gets better. 
TROI: Thank you, Hedril. So do I. 
(Hedril and Maques leave) 
TROI: I just don't understand how she fits in to all this. 
CRUSHER: And I haven't found a physiological cause for what's happened
to your mother, which makes me feel that Maques was right when he said
that your mother's condition was precipitated by a traumatic event. 
PICARD: Could this event have involved Hedril? 
TROI: I don't think so. My mother never mentioned her. 
CRUSHER: Does your mother keep personal logs or a journal? 
TROI: Yes, she does. I'll contact Mister Homn on Betazed and ask him to
transmit a copy as soon as possible. There may be some clues there. 
DATA: Perhaps we are being too literal. I have recently learned in my
study of dream analysis that people who appear in a dream can sometimes
represent different aspects of the person who is dreaming. 
TROI: That's right. A child might represent vulnerability. Hedril may
depict some fragile part of my mother. 
PICARD: A part that she's protecting. You said that everything you
encountered when you were in her mind was a barrier of one kind or
another. 
TROI: Yes. You, the wolf, my father. It was though she were summoning
all her defences to keep me away. But keep me away from what? What is
she protecting?

[Troi's quarters]

(a box containing, amongst other things, a carving,
a silver case containing a lock of dark hair, and a picture of her
father) 
TROI: Come in. 
PICARD: Counsellor. 
TROI: Hello, Captain. 
PICARD: I've just come from Sickbay. Doctor Crusher feels that your
mother's condition is worsening. Her neural foundations are getting
weaker. Have you had any luck here? 
TROI: No, nothing. I've gone through all her belongings, read her
journal from the last five years, and other than the fact that I'm not
married yet, nothing bad seems to have happened to her. 
PICARD: Is this your Father? 
TROI: Yes. 
PICARD: He had a kind face. 
TROI: I remember when he died, my mother had to go through all his
things and pack them away. I was seven. I remember thinking how mad
he'd be when he came home and saw what she'd done. I didn't understand
he wasn't coming back. 
PICARD: Deanna, your mother might still come out of this. 
TROI: If we can't figure out what's wrong with her, Captain, I don't
think she will. But I don't know what else to do. I've talked with
Mister Homn, who's known her for years. I've checked her medical
records. I've made enquiries to the government on Betazed, I've
contacted her closest friends. If she's been through some kind of
psychic trauma, there's just no evidence of it. 
PICARD: You said you'd reviewed her journals for the past five years.
Maybe we should go further back. 
TROI: That's a lot to review. My mother's kept a journal since before
she was married. 
PICARD: Then let's start at the beginning. The first entry seems to be
stardate 30620.1. 
TROI: That's the year they were married. 
PICARD: That's odd. There's a seven year gap. 
TROI: It starts about a year after the wedding. 
PICARD: And if I'm not mistaken, it ends a few months after your birth.

TROI: My mother's so diligent about her journal. why would she have
stopped making entries for so long? 
PICARD: She didn't. The files were deleted, by your mother, almost
thirty years ago. 
TROI: I don't understand any of this. Captain, I have to go back inside
my mother's mind. It's the only way we're ever going to get any
answers.

[Sickbay]

CRUSHER: (to nurse) Thank you. Deanna, you
understand that if your paracortical readings go too high again, I'm
going to tell Maques to sever the connection. 
TROI: I know.

