TROI TROI [OC] MAQUES PICARD LWAXANA [OC] CRUSHER
stare accessing happening retreated provide computer suffered induced observation

[Crusher's office]

TROI: He communicated so much to me that at first
it was just a jumble of images. 
CRUSHER: Have you been able to sort any of it out? 
TROI: I think so. During his telepathic contact with my mother, Maques
sensed what he calls a dark place. He tried to tell me about it before,
in my office, and I misunderstood. I thought he was talking about
thoughts my mother was keeping private, but what he meant was that
there was something happening in her met conscious mind. 
CRUSHER: Metaconscious? 
TROI: It's a part of the Betazoid psyche. It's a kind of filtering
mechanism that protects us from psychic trauma. 
PICARD: Is Maques suggesting that your mother's metaconscious has been
somehow damaged? 
TROI: He feels that whatever is wrong with her is centred there. If
he's right it may mean that she's suffered some kind of trauma that her
metaconscious just can't tolerate. 
CRUSHER: Has your mother mentioned anything that happened to her
lately, something that might have been traumatic for her? 
TROI: No. Nothing. 
CRUSHER: Maques could be wrong about this. There's still a chance that
a subneural scan might be able to pinpoint an physiological cause for
your mother's condition, something that I might be able to treat. The
results won't be in until morning. Maybe we should all try and get some
rest. 
TROI: I'd like to stay here with her. I'm going to try to contact her
telepathically. 
CRUSHER: All right.

[Sickbay]

TROI [OC]: Mother can you hear me? Please come back
to me. Please. 
LWAXANA [OC]: Help me. 
TROI [OC]: Mother? 
LWAXANA [OC]: Help me. 
TROI [OC]: How? How can I help you? 
TROI: Tell me, mother. Please. 
(later, Deanna is sleeping on another biobed when someone comes in. She
wakes) 
TROI: Computer, lights! 
(it's Maques) 
TROI: What are you doing? 
[Observation lounge]

PICARD: Maques, what were you doing in Sickbay? 
MAQUES: Helping. Trying to help Lwaxana. 
TROI: How? What were you trying to do? 
MAQUES: I was. She was. You, Deanna. Maybe you. 
TROI: Yes? 
MAQUES: You must. How can I explain 
TROI: Tell me telepathically. 
(the direct stare) 
TROI: Maques believes my mother's psyche has collapsed in on itself.
That for some reason, she has retreated into her metaconscious mind. 
PICARD: Was he trying to contact her telepathically? 
TROI: Yes. He was able to access images being generated by her
metaconscious, but he couldn't make any sense of them. 
MAQUES: I did not understand. 
TROI: He saw faces he didn't recognize, events he couldn't interpret. 
CRUSHER: If we could decipher these images, we might be able to
determine whether or not your mother's condition was induced by a
traumatic event. 
TROI: Maques feels he can provide a telepathic bridge that will allow
me to access my mother's metaconscious. If he can, I might be able to
find out what happened to her. 
PICARD: And if you succeed, can you use that information to help your
mother? 
TROI: I'm not sure. But I do know that there's a part of her that wants
to be helped. When I tried to contact her telepathically, I heard a
voice calling out to me. 
PICARD: If her psyche has collapsed in on itself, could accessing her
mind pose any danger to you? 
TROI: There's no way to know. I'd like to try. 
