PICARD TROI CRUSHER MAQUES

[Sickbay]

CRUSHER: She's not responding to cortical
stimulation. I'm not sure what else I can do. 
TROI: I don't understand. She was fine just yesterday. 
CRUSHER: It's so strange. It's almost as if her brain has shut itself
down. 
PICARD: Is there a physiological cause? 
CRUSHER: I'm running a subneural scan. As far as I can see there's no
tissue damage, no neurochemical imbalance, no sign of infection,
nothing. 
PICARD: Yet her neural activity is practically non-existent. 
CRUSHER: The only exception is in the paracortex. Activity there is
almost off the scale. 
TROI: The paracortex is the Betazoid telepathic lobe. She communicated
with Maques telepathically just before she fell. 
PICARD: Might there be some side effect of Cairn telepathy of which
we're unaware? 
CRUSHER: It's a possibility. 
PICARD: I think it's time that you and I had a talk with Maques.

[Maques' quarters]

MAQUES: I am very apologetic for what has happened
to your mother. 
PICARD: Maques, is it possible that your telepathic communications with
Mrs Troi harmed her in some way? 
MAQUES: No. I tried to explain before. Bad thoughts, they hurt her. 
TROI: What thoughts? Take your time. 
MAQUES: Inside her, the dark place. 
TROI: I don't understand. 
MAQUES: She is, what are the words? I don't have the words. 
(So he sends Troi the pictures instead, and Troi puts her hands over
her ears) 
PICARD: Counsellor? Stop it! 
TROI: It's all right. I'm fine. He was just trying to communicate with
me telepathically. 
MAQUES: Do you understand now? 
TROI: I'm not sure. 
[Crusher's office]

TROI: He communicated so much to me that at first
it was just a jumble of images. 
CRUSHER: Have you been able to sort any of it out? 
TROI: I think so. During his telepathic contact with my mother, Maques
sensed what he calls a dark place. He tried to tell me about it before,
in my office, and I misunderstood. I thought he was talking about
thoughts my mother was keeping private, but what he meant was that
there was something happening in her met conscious mind. 
CRUSHER: Metaconscious? 
TROI: It's a part of the Betazoid psyche. It's a kind of filtering
mechanism that protects us from psychic trauma. 
PICARD: Is Maques suggesting that your mother's metaconscious has been
somehow damaged? 
TROI: He feels that whatever is wrong with her is centred there. If
he's right it may mean that she's suffered some kind of trauma that her
metaconscious just can't tolerate. 
CRUSHER: Has your mother mentioned anything that happened to her
lately, something that might have been traumatic for her? 
TROI: No. Nothing. 
CRUSHER: Maques could be wrong about this. There's still a chance that
a subneural scan might be able to pinpoint an physiological cause for
your mother's condition, something that I might be able to treat. The
results won't be in until morning. Maybe we should all try and get some
rest. 
TROI: I'd like to stay here with her. I'm going to try to contact her
telepathically. 
CRUSHER: All right.

