TROI MAQUES PICARD LWAXANA HEDRIL CRUSHER
plant sickbay tree yesterday dark way collected come unaware

[Arboretum]

(two children are rolling a ball by a small pool) 
TROI: This is the ship's arboretum. 
HEDRIL: Arbor means tree. 
TROI: Very good, Hedril. This is where people come to relax, enjoy
themselves in a natural setting. 
(Maques pricks his finger on a rose thorn) 
TROI: Flowers of all hue, and without thorn the rose. It's an old earth
poem by John Milton. 
MAQUES: Please, what is a poem? 
TROI: Poetry is an art form that uses words, put together in new and
unexpected ways, sometimes in rhyme. Milton was speculating that in
Heaven, roses wouldn't have thorns. 
HEDRIL: Heaven? 
TROI: Oh. Er, Heaven is. Well, it's, how can I put it? 
(Maques looks at Lwaxana) 
MAQUES: Yes, I see. Thank you. Heaven. 
TROI: Mother, you're supposed to be avoiding telepathy. 
LWAXANA: I'm only trying to help, dear. 
TROI: You don't look well. 
LWAXANA: I'm just tired. Maybe I'll sit down. 
(Hedril goes to play with the other children) 
TROI: Don't worry she'll be fine. This is something I think you'll find
interesting. It's a jewel plant from Folnar Three. The plant secretes a
resin which is collected within the blossom. By the time the bloom has
faded, the resin has hardened into a rare and beautiful gem. 
(Hedril is walking on the stones around the pond. She falls into the
water, and stands up giggling. It's about 6 inches deep.) 
TROI: Mother! 
(Lwaxana is out cold on the ground) 
TROI: Mother? Troi to Sickbay. Medical emergency in the arboretum. 
[Sickbay]

CRUSHER: She's not responding to cortical
stimulation. I'm not sure what else I can do. 
TROI: I don't understand. She was fine just yesterday. 
CRUSHER: It's so strange. It's almost as if her brain has shut itself
down. 
PICARD: Is there a physiological cause? 
CRUSHER: I'm running a subneural scan. As far as I can see there's no
tissue damage, no neurochemical imbalance, no sign of infection,
nothing. 
PICARD: Yet her neural activity is practically non-existent. 
CRUSHER: The only exception is in the paracortex. Activity there is
almost off the scale. 
TROI: The paracortex is the Betazoid telepathic lobe. She communicated
with Maques telepathically just before she fell. 
PICARD: Might there be some side effect of Cairn telepathy of which
we're unaware? 
CRUSHER: It's a possibility. 
PICARD: I think it's time that you and I had a talk with Maques.

[Maques' quarters]

MAQUES: I am very apologetic for what has happened
to your mother. 
PICARD: Maques, is it possible that your telepathic communications with
Mrs Troi harmed her in some way? 
MAQUES: No. I tried to explain before. Bad thoughts, they hurt her. 
TROI: What thoughts? Take your time. 
MAQUES: Inside her, the dark place. 
TROI: I don't understand. 
MAQUES: She is, what are the words? I don't have the words. 
(So he sends Troi the pictures instead, and Troi puts her hands over
her ears) 
PICARD: Counsellor? Stop it! 
TROI: It's all right. I'm fine. He was just trying to communicate with
me telepathically. 
MAQUES: Do you understand now? 
TROI: I'm not sure. 
