PRYTT [OC] RIKER CRUSHER WORF PICARD LORIN [on monitor] MAURIC AIDE DATA
great afraid forgive operational station connected realise sense sensed

[Bridge]

(at the science station) 
DATA: I have scanned the entire Prytt communications system. This
appears to be the primary access module for the central government. 
RIKER: Can you determine which of the comm. links is connected to the
Prime Minister's office? 
DATA: I believe so, sir. However, the Prytt have no link designed for
extraterritorial communication. Our hail may come as a quite surprise
to them. 
RIKER: Well, they're going to have to adjust. Open a channel. 
PRYTT [OC]: This is Prime Minister Horath's headquarters. How can I be
of service? 
RIKER: This is Commander William T. Riker, Federation starship
Enterprise. I know this may seem an unusual way 
PRYTT [OC]: The Enterprise? You mean the ship in orbit? 
RIKER: That's right. 
PRYTT [OC]: Why are you on this comm. link? 
RIKER: We're having trouble contacting your government directly. We had
to start somewhere. If you would let me talk to your 
PRYTT [OC]: Did you get authorisation for this communication from the
Security Ministry? 
RIKER: As I said, we're having trouble contacting you 
PRYTT [OC]: I cannot participate in an unauthorised communication. This
transmission is terminated. 
RIKER: Not very friendly, are they? 
DATA: No, sir. 
WORF: Sir, we are being hailed. It is the Prytt Security Council. 
RIKER: Well, it looks like we got someone's attention. On screen. 
LORIN [on monitor]: Enterprise, this is Security Minister Lorin. You
will immediately cease all attempts at communication with our people. 
RIKER: Minister, we've been attempting to contact someone in your
government. It appears that you have detained two of our officers. We
would like to discuss the situation. 
LORIN [on monitor]: There is nothing to discuss. If you do not
terminate these transmissions, we will be forced to take aggressive
action against your ship. 
(transmission ends, Mauric enters) 
WORF: Their weapon systems pose no threat to the Enterprise. 
RIKER: Just the same, let's keep the shields up for the time being. 
WORF: Aye, sir. 
MAURIC: Is there a problem, Commander? 
RIKER: Our efforts with the Prytt just ran into a wall. 
MAURIC: I'm sorry. But perhaps this will brighten your spirits. We have
freed your Captain and doctor. 
RIKER: What? 
MAURIC: They were being held in prison just outside the Prytt capital.
One of our operatives was able to arrange their escape. 
WORF: Where are they now? 
MAURIC: Well, they should be en route to the Kes border. Our operative
provided them with a detailed map and instructions on where to go. 
RIKER: How will you get them across the border? 
MAURIC: At the moment, that information is confidential, but trust us,
we do have a plan. 
RIKER: Ambassador, I'm afraid I must insist that you provide us with
more information. 
MAURIC: I understand your concern, of course, but I would feel more
comfortable discussing these operational details in a less public
environment. 
RIKER: Certainly. We can step into the Ready room. 
MAURIC: I would prefer the quarters you provided me. They're safer. 
RIKER: All right.

[Tunnel]

PICARD: There's no way out of here. 
CRUSHER: Maybe we took a wrong turn. 
(they retrace their steps) 
CRUSHER: So am I. 
PICARD: What? 
CRUSHER: I'm thirsty too. 
PICARD: I didn't say anything about being thirsty. 
CRUSHER: I heard you. You said, I'm very thirsty. 
PICARD: I was thinking about it, but I didn't say anything. 
CRUSHER: You were thinking it? 
PICARD: The transceivers. Lorin said that they would align themselves
to our psi-wave patterns. 
CRUSHER: The implants must be transmitting our thoughts. What am I
thinking? 
PICARD: I don't know. 
CRUSHER: I can't hear your thoughts, either. Maybe it was a fluke. 
PICARD: Well, right now we have more immediate concerns. Does your map
show us a way out of here? 
CRUSHER: Yes, we need to go up. 
[Cavern]

CRUSHER: There's a ledge about thirty metres up.
That should lead to another tunnel that connects up to the surface. 
PICARD: Right. 
(Picard starts up the rock face) 
PICARD: I heard that. They were not words exactly. A sudden sense of
fear. A sense of fear of heights. 
CRUSHER: So much for that being a fluke. 
PICARD: It was a strange sensation. Suddenly having these thoughts
appear in my mind. 
CRUSHER: If you sensed a fear of heights, you sensed pretty accurately.

PICARD: Come on, you've done this before. It's just like on a holodeck.
One step at a time, just climbing steadily and slowly. 
CRUSHER: Right.

[Kes quarters]

(the Kes have brought in some hardware of their
own. Riker is scanned by the assistant when he enters) 
RIKER: I see you've done some redecorating. 
MAURIC: Just a few pieces of equipment necessary for security reasons.
You understand? 
RIKER: Certainly. 
AIDE: He is all right. 
RIKER: How do you plan to get our people out of Prytt territory? 
MAURIC: You must realise that everything I'm about to say cannot leave
this room. For some time, we have had certain friends among the Prytt.
Citizens who realise that the long struggle between our two peoples can
only end when the Prytt government is made to see reason. 
RIKER: You've recruited a few Prytt spies. 
MAURIC: That's a crude, but accurate term. These friends will be
waiting for your Captain and Doctor when they reach the village of Ohn
Kor near the Kes border. The map we provided your officers will take
them to a tavern there. 
RIKER: Forgive me, Ambassador, but is it wise to send two human
fugitives in Starfleet uniforms into a Prytt village? 
MAURIC: The danger is minimal. Our operatives control almost the whole
village. Once contact has been made with Captain Picard and Doctor
Crusher, our friends will escort them across the border into Kes. 
RIKER: I would still feel better if they could rendezvous with your
operatives in a less public place. 
MAURIC: Commander, I assure you we know what we're doing. We've had a
great deal of experience dealing with the Prytt. We'd hardly risk the
safety of your people. After all, we still hope you will recommend our
entrance into the Federation.

