RIKER CRUSHER PICARD TROOPER MAURIC TROOPER [OC] LORIN
starships spying island originally oc course want captain today

[Observation lounge]

LORIN: We are already aware of your plan to use
Federation technology to build new attack satellites. You will find
that we are prepared for them. 
MAURIC: That is an interesting but pointless lie. I'd rather discuss
your own plans to use Federation aid to stage a takeover of Kolrod
Island. 
LORIN: We have been over this before. Kolrod clearly belongs to the
Prytt who originally 
RIKER: That's it! I can see that diplomacy is not going to get us
anywhere today, and I do not have time for to negotiate. So let's put
all of our cards on the table. You're concerned the Kes are going to be
admitted to the Federation. 
LORIN: Correct. 
RIKER: As First Officer of the Enterprise I think I can promise you
that's not going to happen. The Kes will be denied membership. 
MAURIC: You have no authority to make that decision. Despite whatever
games you played with the Prytt when you arrived, we still plan to take
our petition directly to the Federation Council. They'll listen 
RIKER: They will also listen to the reports of the Captain of the
Enterprise and his First Officer. And I can tell you right now the
First Officer's report will go something like this. Kesprytt, a deeply
troubled world with social, political, and military problems they have
yet to resolve. The Kes, while a friendly and democratic people, are
driven by suspicion, deviousness, and paranoia. It is the opinion of
this officer they are not ready for membership. Now, the matter of our
missing officers. 
LORIN: They are still charged with spying, Commander. I have heard
nothing here which would alter that. 
RIKER: Then maybe you should consider this. If anything happens to
them, Starfleet is going to want a full investigation, which means more
starships will be coming to Kesprytt and those ships are going to want
answers which puts your country under a very large and very
uncomfortable microscope. Remember how unhappy you were when we
contacted just one of your people without authorisation? Well, just
think of what it'll be like. Ten starships asking questions, contacting
hundreds of your people. Massive sensor sweeps. They may even start
sending down away teams. All because you wouldn't help me find my
missing officers. 
[Border]

CRUSHER: I think I can use the tricorder to set up
a multiphase pulse. That should weaken the field enough to let us
through. 
PICARD: No, no. The modulation frequency is in the upper harmonic
range. 
CRUSHER: Right. 
PICARD: They're coming. 
CRUSHER: I'm working as fast as I can. 
(a hole appears and Beverly pushes Picard through, then it closes and
the soldiers arrive) 
TROOPER: Minister, we have the human female. The male is standing in
Kes territory.

[Observation lounge]

LORIN: Very well. Transmit their coordinates to the
Enterprise transporter room. 
TROOPER [OC]: Understood. 
RIKER: Thank you, Minister. Now, if you'll excuse me. 
[Corridor]

RIKER: Mauric is determined to take his protest to
the Federation Council, but I don't think he'll get very far. 
PICARD: I tend to agree, Number One. 
(Picard and Crusher glance at each other then laugh) 
RIKER: Did I miss something? 
PICARD: Of course. Of course. You're absolutely right.

