BOTH RIKER CRUSHER WORF PICARD LORIN [on viewscreen] MAURIC LORIN
measures kept lies knew lounge wesley vulcan betraying official

[Camp]

(surrounded by night and trees, they've got a fire
lit) 
PICARD: No luck? 
CRUSHER: I'm beginning to think there's not a single thing on this
planet we can eat. 
PICARD: Well, by this time tomorrow we could be back on the Enterprise
and you can plant yourself in front of a replicator with a knife and
fork. 
CRUSHER: Remember that Vulcan dish I promised you for breakfast? I was
just. You hate having breakfast with me. 
PICARD: That's not true. 
CRUSHER: Yes, it is. When I said breakfast, I heard you say, I hate
that. 
PICARD: That's not quite what I meant. 
CRUSHER: Well, then what did you mean? 
PICARD: It's just that I don't like 
CRUSHER: What I've been choosing for breakfast recently. 
PICARD: You see, I think that breakfast should be a simple meal and
recently you've been ordering these elaborate things. 
CRUSHER: Coffee and croissants, that's all you really want, isn't it?
Coffee and croissants. Well why didn't you just say so? 
PICARD: I didn't think it was important. You don't like those elaborate
meals either. 
CRUSHER: No, I usually prefer something simple myself but I thought you
might enjoy more variety. Well, I guess it's Coffee and croissants for
both of us from now on. 
BOTH: I love firelight. 
PICARD: There's something about the flame, the smell of the smoke. It's
always seemed to me to be intoxicating, somehow. 
CRUSHER: I remember when Jack and I took Wesley on his first camping
trip to Balfour Lake. Wesley kept throwing manta leaves in the fire,
watching them pop. Jack kept telling him. What? Jean-Luc, I heard you.
Don't push it away. When I said Jack and I, I felt this sudden wave of
something. I didn't know you felt that way. 
PICARD: Didn't you? 
CRUSHER: I guess I always knew that there was an attraction between us
right from the start, but I never knew how strongly you felt. Why
didn't you ever tell me you were in love with me? 
PICARD: You were married to my best friend. At first I thought it was
harmless infatuation. Something hormonal rather than emotional. 
CRUSHER: Then when the months went by and the three of us began
spending more time together. 
PICARD: I realised that it was something else, and it wasn't right. But
although I would never act on it, I couldn't help the way I felt. 
CRUSHER: And when Jack died you felt guilty. 
PICARD: I felt guilty before he died Having feelings like that
for my best friend's wife. And then later, after the accident, I
promised myself that I would never tell you know how I felt. It would
be like betraying my friend 
CRUSHER: That's why you didn't want me on the Enterprise seven years
ago. 
PICARD: I didn't know how I would react. And then, little by little, I
realised that I didn't have those feelings any more. Twenty years is,
after all, a long time. 
CRUSHER: And now we're friends. 
PICARD: Yes, friends. 
CRUSHER: Well, we still have a lot of ground to cover tomorrow. We
should get some sleep. 
PICARD: Right. 
(Beverly lies down near the fire, then Picard lies next to her)

[Bridge]

RIKER: Ambassador, thank you for coming. 
MAURIC: Commander. 
RIKER: We're going to clear up this misunderstanding once and for all.
Hail Minister Lorin, please. 
WORF: Aye, sir. 
LORIN [on viewscreen]: Enterprise, I have warned you about these
unauthorised communications. 
RIKER: Yes, I know, but I think it's about time we all sat down
together and tried to work this out. I have Ambassador Mauric here 
LORIN [on viewscreen]: That is your misfortune. We have nothing to say
to either of you. 
(transmission ends) 
MAURIC: Commander, you're working with the Prytt. Putting on this
little show for my benefit does neither of us any good. 
RIKER: We'll see. Mister Worf. 
(Worf works his panel) 
RIKER: I believe there's someone waiting for us in the Observation
Lounge.

[Observation lounge]

LORIN: I should have known that anyone willing to
deal with the Kes would be capable of such an outrage. 
RIKER: I'm sorry to resort to such drastic measures, Minister, but you
left me little choice. 
MAURIC: Don't pretend the two of you are enemies. It's too late for
charades. 
LORIN: If that is an attempt to hide your military alliance with the
Federation, you needn't bother. I already know far more than you can
imagine. 
RIKER: Let's all just sit down and try to talk about what's happened to
Captain Picard and Doctor Crusher. 
LORIN: I will not sit at a table with him. 
MAURIC: No more than I would sit with her. 
RIKER: All right then, we'll stand. The important thing is that we
start talking. 
LORIN: I am not authorised to talk with a Kes official. 
RIKER: All right then, you talk to me. Where are my officers? 
MAURIC: As if you don't already know.

[Hillside]

(they are running from two soldiers) 
CRUSHER: Let's go. 
(a soldier fires at them and catches Picard who rolls down the slope) 
PICARD: I'm all right. 
(they run)

