RIKER WORF PICARD TROI MAURIC CRUSHER

[Observation lounge]

MAURIC: Commander, on behalf of my government, I
would like to take this opportunity to present my profound apologies
regarding this unfortunate incident. 
RIKER: That's very kind, Ambassador. But I don't think anyone here
holds you or the Kes government responsible for what's happened. 
TROI: Our primary concern is not to assign blame, but to recover our
missing officers. 
MAURIC: I agree. We are prepared to insert a hostage rescue team into
the Prytt capital city on three hours notice. 
RIKER: Ambassador, we have not even attempted a diplomatic effort yet.
I would rather not use force until we've exhausted all other options. 
MAURIC: I don't believe there is any diplomatic option, Commander. We
have no formal relations with the Prytt. No ambassadors. There's simply
no way to contact them. 
TROI: Surely you must have some means of communication in case of a
planetary emergency. 
MAURIC: We have never had need of such a system. 
WORF: We can determine their communications frequencies and establish a
link. 
MAURIC: Allow me to be blunt. The Prytt are a fanatical, xenophobic
people, with little regard for civilised discourse. Even if you do
establish communications link with them, it will be a complete waste of
time. 
TROI: How long has it been since your last diplomatic contact? 
MAURIC: Almost a century. 
TROI: Then it's possible they may have changed over the years. 
MAURIC: We have had other less formal contacts with the Prytt. Contacts
we cannot discuss. But I can assure you, they have changed very little.

RIKER: With all due respect, Ambassador, I think I should try to
communicate with the Prytt before I sanction the use of force. 
MAURIC: Of course, Commander. In the meantime, I will continue making
preparations for a rescue attempt. 
RIKER: Agreed. 
MAURIC: I do have one request. We believe that the Prytt obtained their
information about the transport of your captain and doctor through a
breach in our communications network. If I could set up a base of
operations here on the Enterprise, I'd feel much more secure. 
RIKER: Mister Worf will help you. 
MAURIC: Thank you, Lieutenant.

[Corridor]

(Worf opens the doors of the chosen quarters for
the Kes, and the Ambassador peers in cautiously)
MAURIC: You first.

[Kes quarters]

(the ambassador's aide uses a tricorder device) 
WORF: Is there a problem, Ambassador? 
MAURIC: Probably not. Simply securing the area. 
WORF: I can assure you there is no need. 
MAURIC: I'm sure you're right. (checks the scan results) Yes, this will
do very nicely. 
WORF: As Security Chief of the Enterprise, I would be glad to assist
you in any way possible. 
MAURIC: There's no need. We'll take care of everything. Thank you,
Lieutenant.

[Cave]

(a secret door opens, and Beverly and Picard come
though) 
PICARD: There must be a lava flow or a underground hot spring somewhere
near here. 
CRUSHER: It's a lava flow. It's about thirty metres below us. It says
we should go this way. I smell gas. 
(a plume of flame comes up from the floor, then another and another) 
CRUSHER: This whole chamber is filled with pockets of a methanogenic
compound. 
PICARD: Can we get through it? 
CRUSHER: I think so. 
PICARD: What did you say? 
CRUSHER: I didn't say anything. There might be a fairly regular pattern
to these eruptions. We should be able to navigate out way through them
if we're careful. 
PICARD: Say when. 
CRUSHER: Now. 
(they run) 
(further on) 
PICARD: The eruptions have stopped. 
CRUSHER: The gas is building up! 
(a big fireball explodes behind them)

