RIKER CRUSHER WORF PICARD PRYTT MAURIC LORIN DATA

[Corridor]

(Worf opens the doors of the chosen quarters for
the Kes, and the Ambassador peers in cautiously)
MAURIC: You first.

[Kes quarters]

(the ambassador's aide uses a tricorder device) 
WORF: Is there a problem, Ambassador? 
MAURIC: Probably not. Simply securing the area. 
WORF: I can assure you there is no need. 
MAURIC: I'm sure you're right. (checks the scan results) Yes, this will
do very nicely. 
WORF: As Security Chief of the Enterprise, I would be glad to assist
you in any way possible. 
MAURIC: There's no need. We'll take care of everything. Thank you,
Lieutenant.

[Cave]

(a secret door opens, and Beverly and Picard come
though) 
PICARD: There must be a lava flow or a underground hot spring somewhere
near here. 
CRUSHER: It's a lava flow. It's about thirty metres below us. It says
we should go this way. I smell gas. 
(a plume of flame comes up from the floor, then another and another) 
CRUSHER: This whole chamber is filled with pockets of a methanogenic
compound. 
PICARD: Can we get through it? 
CRUSHER: I think so. 
PICARD: What did you say? 
CRUSHER: I didn't say anything. There might be a fairly regular pattern
to these eruptions. We should be able to navigate out way through them
if we're careful. 
PICARD: Say when. 
CRUSHER: Now. 
(they run) 
(further on) 
PICARD: The eruptions have stopped. 
CRUSHER: The gas is building up! 
(a big fireball explodes behind them)

[Bridge]

(at the science station) 
DATA: I have scanned the entire Prytt communications system. This
appears to be the primary access module for the central government. 
RIKER: Can you determine which of the comm. links is connected to the
Prime Minister's office? 
DATA: I believe so, sir. However, the Prytt have no link designed for
extraterritorial communication. Our hail may come as a quite surprise
to them. 
RIKER: Well, they're going to have to adjust. Open a channel. 
PRYTT [OC]: This is Prime Minister Horath's headquarters. How can I be
of service? 
RIKER: This is Commander William T. Riker, Federation starship
Enterprise. I know this may seem an unusual way 
PRYTT [OC]: The Enterprise? You mean the ship in orbit? 
RIKER: That's right. 
PRYTT [OC]: Why are you on this comm. link? 
RIKER: We're having trouble contacting your government directly. We had
to start somewhere. If you would let me talk to your 
PRYTT [OC]: Did you get authorisation for this communication from the
Security Ministry? 
RIKER: As I said, we're having trouble contacting you 
PRYTT [OC]: I cannot participate in an unauthorised communication. This
transmission is terminated. 
RIKER: Not very friendly, are they? 
DATA: No, sir. 
WORF: Sir, we are being hailed. It is the Prytt Security Council. 
RIKER: Well, it looks like we got someone's attention. On screen. 
LORIN [on monitor]: Enterprise, this is Security Minister Lorin. You
will immediately cease all attempts at communication with our people. 
RIKER: Minister, we've been attempting to contact someone in your
government. It appears that you have detained two of our officers. We
would like to discuss the situation. 
LORIN [on monitor]: There is nothing to discuss. If you do not
terminate these transmissions, we will be forced to take aggressive
action against your ship. 
(transmission ends, Mauric enters) 
WORF: Their weapon systems pose no threat to the Enterprise. 
RIKER: Just the same, let's keep the shields up for the time being. 
WORF: Aye, sir. 
MAURIC: Is there a problem, Commander? 
RIKER: Our efforts with the Prytt just ran into a wall. 
MAURIC: I'm sorry. But perhaps this will brighten your spirits. We have
freed your Captain and doctor. 
RIKER: What? 
MAURIC: They were being held in prison just outside the Prytt capital.
One of our operatives was able to arrange their escape. 
WORF: Where are they now? 
MAURIC: Well, they should be en route to the Kes border. Our operative
provided them with a detailed map and instructions on where to go. 
RIKER: How will you get them across the border? 
MAURIC: At the moment, that information is confidential, but trust us,
we do have a plan. 
RIKER: Ambassador, I'm afraid I must insist that you provide us with
more information. 
MAURIC: I understand your concern, of course, but I would feel more
comfortable discussing these operational details in a less public
environment. 
RIKER: Certainly. We can step into the Ready room. 
MAURIC: I would prefer the quarters you provided me. They're safer. 
RIKER: All right.

