RIKER CRUSHER WORF PICARD TROI MAURIC LORIN DATA

[Cell]

(Picard wakes up on a hard floor) 
PICARD: Beverly. Beverly. 
CRUSHER: What happened? 
PICARD: I don't know. 
CRUSHER: The last thing I remember we were beginning to transport. 
PICARD: I would assume we must be on Kesprytt. We're in some kind of
prison cell. The question is, why? I can't imagine that Ambassador
Mauric would have any reason to detain us. 
CRUSHER: Jean-Luc. 
PICARD: What is it? 
CRUSHER: Let me see. 
PICARD: What? 
(there's something sticking out of the back of his neck) 
CRUSHER: It looks like an implant. It seems to be connected directly to
the brainstem. 
(She's got one under her hair as well) 
PICARD: Some kind of coercive device? 
CRUSHER: Whatever it is I doubt it's designed for our health. 
(the doors open and security in dark one-piece suits with hoods enter) 
PICARD: What is going on here? 
CRUSHER: If you tell us why you've taken us hostage, we might be able
to 
LORIN: (female) You are not hostages. You are prisoners. 
PICARD: Prisoners on whose authority? 
LORIN: You are being held under the authority of the Prytt Security
Ministry. The charges are conspiring with the enemy. 
PICARD: Enemy? You mean the Kes. 
LORIN: We're not fools. We are aware of the Federation attempt to
establish a military alliance with the Kes. It will not be tolerated. 
PICARD: Your information is incorrect. We have no plans to enter into
any 
LORIN: There is no point in trying to mislead us, Captain. The devices
which have been implanted in your cerebral cortexes will soon be
calibrated to your psi-wave pattern. At that time, we will be able to
get all the information we need. 
PICARD: And then you'll discover that we're telling the truth. 
LORIN: We shall see.

[Transporter room]

DATA: There is nothing wrong with the transporter.
I have run a complete diagnostic of all the targeting components. 
RIKER: Then what happened to the Captain and Doctor Crusher? 
WORF: Commander. The Transporter sensor log shows an unusual
concentration of antigraviton particles in the emitter coil. 
DATA: A concentration of antigraviton particles suggests a tractor
beam. It might have deflected the transporter beam to a different set
of coordinates. 
RIKER: Is there a way to locate those coordinates? 
DATA: The tractor beam originated somewhere in the Prytt Alliance. 
WORF: Why does the Prytt want Captain Picard and Doctor Crusher? 
RIKER: I don't know. And it's not going to be easy to find out. The
Prytt have consistently refused all outside contact. We're going to
have to work through the Kes. Contact Ambassador Mauric. Tell him I
want a meeting right now. 
WORF: Aye, sir.

[Cell]

(Picard is testing the bars on the window very
carefully) 
PICARD: What? 
CRUSHER: What? 
PICARD: You're staring at me. 
CRUSHER: I was just thinking about how to get out of here. 
PICARD: There may be a structural flaw that would allow us to escape. 
CRUSHER: Right. 
PICARD: Beverly, the important thing during any confinement is to think
positively and not give up hope. There is a way out of every box, there
is a solution to every puzzle. It's just a matter of finding it. 
(the guard puts a covered plate on the floor and backs out. Picard
fails to stop the door closing again) 
PICARD: Damn. 
CRUSHER: Well, at least this means we won't starve to death. 
PICARD: It means they plan on keeping us here for a while. 
CRUSHER: I'm beginning to think negatively, Jean-Luc. 
(she takes the cover off the plate) 
CRUSHER: My tricorder! 
PICARD: Does it work? 
CRUSHER: Yes. Except something's been added to the main directory. 
PICARD: It's a map. 
CRUSHER: An escape route. That guard must be working for the Kes. 
PICARD: Possibly. Or it could be part of a very carefully laid trap. 
CRUSHER: If you ask me, I'd like to take my chances out there. 
PICARD: Agreed. Is there a way to open the cell door? 
CRUSHER: Yes, the code's been entered. 
(the door opens, there's no one around, and off they go)

[Observation lounge]

MAURIC: Commander, on behalf of my government, I
would like to take this opportunity to present my profound apologies
regarding this unfortunate incident. 
RIKER: That's very kind, Ambassador. But I don't think anyone here
holds you or the Kes government responsible for what's happened. 
TROI: Our primary concern is not to assign blame, but to recover our
missing officers. 
MAURIC: I agree. We are prepared to insert a hostage rescue team into
the Prytt capital city on three hours notice. 
RIKER: Ambassador, we have not even attempted a diplomatic effort yet.
I would rather not use force until we've exhausted all other options. 
MAURIC: I don't believe there is any diplomatic option, Commander. We
have no formal relations with the Prytt. No ambassadors. There's simply
no way to contact them. 
TROI: Surely you must have some means of communication in case of a
planetary emergency. 
MAURIC: We have never had need of such a system. 
WORF: We can determine their communications frequencies and establish a
link. 
MAURIC: Allow me to be blunt. The Prytt are a fanatical, xenophobic
people, with little regard for civilised discourse. Even if you do
establish communications link with them, it will be a complete waste of
time. 
TROI: How long has it been since your last diplomatic contact? 
MAURIC: Almost a century. 
TROI: Then it's possible they may have changed over the years. 
MAURIC: We have had other less formal contacts with the Prytt. Contacts
we cannot discuss. But I can assure you, they have changed very little.

RIKER: With all due respect, Ambassador, I think I should try to
communicate with the Prytt before I sanction the use of force. 
MAURIC: Of course, Commander. In the meantime, I will continue making
preparations for a rescue attempt. 
RIKER: Agreed. 
MAURIC: I do have one request. We believe that the Prytt obtained their
information about the transport of your captain and doctor through a
breach in our communications network. If I could set up a base of
operations here on the Enterprise, I'd feel much more secure. 
RIKER: Mister Worf will help you. 
MAURIC: Thank you, Lieutenant.

