RIKER WORF PICARD TROI MAURIC CRUSHER
map responsible area xenophobic contacts possibly incident team opportunity

[Cell]

(Picard is testing the bars on the window very
carefully) 
PICARD: What? 
CRUSHER: What? 
PICARD: You're staring at me. 
CRUSHER: I was just thinking about how to get out of here. 
PICARD: There may be a structural flaw that would allow us to escape. 
CRUSHER: Right. 
PICARD: Beverly, the important thing during any confinement is to think
positively and not give up hope. There is a way out of every box, there
is a solution to every puzzle. It's just a matter of finding it. 
(the guard puts a covered plate on the floor and backs out. Picard
fails to stop the door closing again) 
PICARD: Damn. 
CRUSHER: Well, at least this means we won't starve to death. 
PICARD: It means they plan on keeping us here for a while. 
CRUSHER: I'm beginning to think negatively, Jean-Luc. 
(she takes the cover off the plate) 
CRUSHER: My tricorder! 
PICARD: Does it work? 
CRUSHER: Yes. Except something's been added to the main directory. 
PICARD: It's a map. 
CRUSHER: An escape route. That guard must be working for the Kes. 
PICARD: Possibly. Or it could be part of a very carefully laid trap. 
CRUSHER: If you ask me, I'd like to take my chances out there. 
PICARD: Agreed. Is there a way to open the cell door? 
CRUSHER: Yes, the code's been entered. 
(the door opens, there's no one around, and off they go)

[Observation lounge]

MAURIC: Commander, on behalf of my government, I
would like to take this opportunity to present my profound apologies
regarding this unfortunate incident. 
RIKER: That's very kind, Ambassador. But I don't think anyone here
holds you or the Kes government responsible for what's happened. 
TROI: Our primary concern is not to assign blame, but to recover our
missing officers. 
MAURIC: I agree. We are prepared to insert a hostage rescue team into
the Prytt capital city on three hours notice. 
RIKER: Ambassador, we have not even attempted a diplomatic effort yet.
I would rather not use force until we've exhausted all other options. 
MAURIC: I don't believe there is any diplomatic option, Commander. We
have no formal relations with the Prytt. No ambassadors. There's simply
no way to contact them. 
TROI: Surely you must have some means of communication in case of a
planetary emergency. 
MAURIC: We have never had need of such a system. 
WORF: We can determine their communications frequencies and establish a
link. 
MAURIC: Allow me to be blunt. The Prytt are a fanatical, xenophobic
people, with little regard for civilised discourse. Even if you do
establish communications link with them, it will be a complete waste of
time. 
TROI: How long has it been since your last diplomatic contact? 
MAURIC: Almost a century. 
TROI: Then it's possible they may have changed over the years. 
MAURIC: We have had other less formal contacts with the Prytt. Contacts
we cannot discuss. But I can assure you, they have changed very little.

RIKER: With all due respect, Ambassador, I think I should try to
communicate with the Prytt before I sanction the use of force. 
MAURIC: Of course, Commander. In the meantime, I will continue making
preparations for a rescue attempt. 
RIKER: Agreed. 
MAURIC: I do have one request. We believe that the Prytt obtained their
information about the transport of your captain and doctor through a
breach in our communications network. If I could set up a base of
operations here on the Enterprise, I'd feel much more secure. 
RIKER: Mister Worf will help you. 
MAURIC: Thank you, Lieutenant.

[Corridor]

(Worf opens the doors of the chosen quarters for
the Kes, and the Ambassador peers in cautiously)
MAURIC: You first.

[Kes quarters]

(the ambassador's aide uses a tricorder device) 
WORF: Is there a problem, Ambassador? 
MAURIC: Probably not. Simply securing the area. 
WORF: I can assure you there is no need. 
MAURIC: I'm sure you're right. (checks the scan results) Yes, this will
do very nicely. 
WORF: As Security Chief of the Enterprise, I would be glad to assist
you in any way possible. 
MAURIC: There's no need. We'll take care of everything. Thank you,
Lieutenant.

