RIKER CRUSHER PICARD TROOPER MAURIC LORIN

[Observation lounge]

LORIN: I should have known that anyone willing to
deal with the Kes would be capable of such an outrage. 
RIKER: I'm sorry to resort to such drastic measures, Minister, but you
left me little choice. 
MAURIC: Don't pretend the two of you are enemies. It's too late for
charades. 
LORIN: If that is an attempt to hide your military alliance with the
Federation, you needn't bother. I already know far more than you can
imagine. 
RIKER: Let's all just sit down and try to talk about what's happened to
Captain Picard and Doctor Crusher. 
LORIN: I will not sit at a table with him. 
MAURIC: No more than I would sit with her. 
RIKER: All right then, we'll stand. The important thing is that we
start talking. 
LORIN: I am not authorised to talk with a Kes official. 
RIKER: All right then, you talk to me. Where are my officers? 
MAURIC: As if you don't already know.

[Hillside]

(they are running from two soldiers) 
CRUSHER: Let's go. 
(a soldier fires at them and catches Picard who rolls down the slope) 
PICARD: I'm all right. 
(they run)

[Observation lounge]

LORIN: We are already aware of your plan to use
Federation technology to build new attack satellites. You will find
that we are prepared for them. 
MAURIC: That is an interesting but pointless lie. I'd rather discuss
your own plans to use Federation aid to stage a takeover of Kolrod
Island. 
LORIN: We have been over this before. Kolrod clearly belongs to the
Prytt who originally 
RIKER: That's it! I can see that diplomacy is not going to get us
anywhere today, and I do not have time for to negotiate. So let's put
all of our cards on the table. You're concerned the Kes are going to be
admitted to the Federation. 
LORIN: Correct. 
RIKER: As First Officer of the Enterprise I think I can promise you
that's not going to happen. The Kes will be denied membership. 
MAURIC: You have no authority to make that decision. Despite whatever
games you played with the Prytt when you arrived, we still plan to take
our petition directly to the Federation Council. They'll listen 
RIKER: They will also listen to the reports of the Captain of the
Enterprise and his First Officer. And I can tell you right now the
First Officer's report will go something like this. Kesprytt, a deeply
troubled world with social, political, and military problems they have
yet to resolve. The Kes, while a friendly and democratic people, are
driven by suspicion, deviousness, and paranoia. It is the opinion of
this officer they are not ready for membership. Now, the matter of our
missing officers. 
LORIN: They are still charged with spying, Commander. I have heard
nothing here which would alter that. 
RIKER: Then maybe you should consider this. If anything happens to
them, Starfleet is going to want a full investigation, which means more
starships will be coming to Kesprytt and those ships are going to want
answers which puts your country under a very large and very
uncomfortable microscope. Remember how unhappy you were when we
contacted just one of your people without authorisation? Well, just
think of what it'll be like. Ten starships asking questions, contacting
hundreds of your people. Massive sensor sweeps. They may even start
sending down away teams. All because you wouldn't help me find my
missing officers. 
[Border]

CRUSHER: I think I can use the tricorder to set up
a multiphase pulse. That should weaken the field enough to let us
through. 
PICARD: No, no. The modulation frequency is in the upper harmonic
range. 
CRUSHER: Right. 
PICARD: They're coming. 
CRUSHER: I'm working as fast as I can. 
(a hole appears and Beverly pushes Picard through, then it closes and
the soldiers arrive) 
TROOPER: Minister, we have the human female. The male is standing in
Kes territory.

