BOTH RIKER CRUSHER WORF PICARD AIDE MAURIC LORIN

[Planet surface]

(Picard and Crusher walk out of a large cave
entrance into a lightly wooded countryside and walk down a slope) 
PICARD: One of us is hungry. 
CRUSHER: That would be me. 
PICARD: Do you mind thinking of something else. You're making me
hungry. 
CRUSHER: What do you want me to think about? 
PICARD: Something other than a large bowl of vegetable soup. 
CRUSHER: My grandmother used to make it, with peas, carrots and 
PICARD: Beverly! 
CRUSHER: I'm sorry. 
PICARD: I am not being unreasonable. 
CRUSHER: I didn't say that you were. I may have thought it, but there's
a difference. 
PICARD: You're right. We can't react to every random thought that
crosses the other person's mind. Isn't astonishing, though, how much
clutter there is in a consciousness. Odd memories coming to the
surface. Bits
of half-remembered songs. 
CRUSHER: Stray day dreams, scattered minutiae. I wonder how true
telepaths sift through it all. How can they really get to what
someone's thinking if the minds keeps churning all this flotsam to the
surface? That is not funny. 
PICARD: I just wanted to see if you were still listening. 
CRUSHER: I think our link is getting stronger. 
PICARD: Maybe if we put some distance between us, that might weaken it.
Not that I'm growing tired of hearing your most intimate thoughts. 
CRUSHER: Certainly not. 
(they separate, then start to stagger) 
CRUSHER: Jean-Luc. 
PICARD: What happened? 
CRUSHER: I was suddenly overcome with a wave of nausea. 
PICARD: Me, too. 
CRUSHER: There's nothing wrong with either of us. Maybe the air is
toxic. 
(she moves away again, then back quickly) 
PICARD: The same thing. But when you moved back toward me it got
better. Well, it seems as if we're stuck with each other.
(some way further on) 
PICARD: What is it? 
CRUSHER: I'm not sure whether we should go over this hill or that one.
The topography on this map is a little vague. 
PICARD: Let me see. This way. 
CRUSHER: You don't really know, do you? 
PICARD: What? 
CRUSHER: I mean, you're acting like you know exactly which way to go,
but you're only guessing. Do you do this all the time? 
PICARD: No, but there are times when it is necessary for a captain to
give the appearance of confidence. 
(they walk on a little way then he looks at her) 
CRUSHER: I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I just couldn't resist. 
PICARD: I'm beginning to realise that you seem to always have some
acerbic remark on the tip of your tongue. 
CRUSHER: Well at least I've trained myself not to say it anymore. When
I was a little girl, my mouth was always landing me in trouble with my
parents, my teachers. 
PICARD: Your friends. There was someone called Tom Norris? 
CRUSHER: That's right. I had one date with him which I brought to an
abrupt halt with the words, is that a beard or 
BOTH: Is your face dirty? 
PICARD: There's something more. You're laughing, but actually you're
embarrassed by that incident. 
CRUSHER: Yes. I thought I was being cute but I really hurt him. That
was a long time ago. I learned a valuable lesson. 
PICARD: This sharing of thoughts and feelings is quite compelling. 
CRUSHER: Very. We'd better get going. 
(they slither down a loose rock slope then duck behind cover when they
see a Prytt soldier on the next ridge) 
CRUSHER: I don't think so, either. Maybe we can find another way to
reach the village. 
PICARD: No. It's several kilometres to find another way around that
ridge. The border is just two kilometres east of here. There's a
forcefield protecting it, but we can find some way to deal with that
when we get there. Come on.

[Kes quarters]

(once again Riker is scanned as he enters with
Worf) 
AIDE: All right. 
RIKER: Is something wrong? 
MAURIC: Have a seat. Captain Picard and Doctor Crusher didn't show up
at the designated rendezvous point. 
RIKER: Do you know what happened to them? 
MAURIC: No. We have no idea what happened to them. We find it strange
that your officers should follow the escape plan so precisely and then
fail to make the crucial rendezvous with our operatives. 
WORF: It is possible they have been recaptured. 
MAURIC: Our sources would have informed us instantly if that had
happened. Of course, if they weren't captured, if they simply made a
different rendezvous, we might not ever know about it. 
RIKER: A different rendezvous? I'm not sure I know what you mean. 
MAURIC: Of course not. How could you know if your Captain and Doctor
were meeting secretly with the Prytt? Meeting in order to set up a
military alliance with the Federation. 
RIKER: What? 
MAURIC: It was a clever scheme. First, you pretend to lose your
officers during transport, then you ask us for help and get us to
expose several of our undercover operatives in the process. But what
you didn't expect was for us to get your people out of prison so
quickly. They needed more time. They needed more time to plot the
destruction of the Kes with their new Prytt friends. 
RIKER: This is ridiculous. You're beginning to see conspiracies
everywhere. We were invited here by the Kes. Why would we ally
ourselves with the Prytt? 
MAURIC: Indeed, why? 
RIKER: You can believe what you like. We're going to find our people
with or without your help. 
MAURIC: Then I believe it's time for us to be leaving the Enterprise. 
RIKER: Fine. Make sure you take all this junk with you.

[Camp]

(surrounded by night and trees, they've got a fire
lit) 
PICARD: No luck? 
CRUSHER: I'm beginning to think there's not a single thing on this
planet we can eat. 
PICARD: Well, by this time tomorrow we could be back on the Enterprise
and you can plant yourself in front of a replicator with a knife and
fork. 
CRUSHER: Remember that Vulcan dish I promised you for breakfast? I was
just. You hate having breakfast with me. 
PICARD: That's not true. 
CRUSHER: Yes, it is. When I said breakfast, I heard you say, I hate
that. 
PICARD: That's not quite what I meant. 
CRUSHER: Well, then what did you mean? 
PICARD: It's just that I don't like 
CRUSHER: What I've been choosing for breakfast recently. 
PICARD: You see, I think that breakfast should be a simple meal and
recently you've been ordering these elaborate things. 
CRUSHER: Coffee and croissants, that's all you really want, isn't it?
Coffee and croissants. Well why didn't you just say so? 
PICARD: I didn't think it was important. You don't like those elaborate
meals either. 
CRUSHER: No, I usually prefer something simple myself but I thought you
might enjoy more variety. Well, I guess it's Coffee and croissants for
both of us from now on. 
BOTH: I love firelight. 
PICARD: There's something about the flame, the smell of the smoke. It's
always seemed to me to be intoxicating, somehow. 
CRUSHER: I remember when Jack and I took Wesley on his first camping
trip to Balfour Lake. Wesley kept throwing manta leaves in the fire,
watching them pop. Jack kept telling him. What? Jean-Luc, I heard you.
Don't push it away. When I said Jack and I, I felt this sudden wave of
something. I didn't know you felt that way. 
PICARD: Didn't you? 
CRUSHER: I guess I always knew that there was an attraction between us
right from the start, but I never knew how strongly you felt. Why
didn't you ever tell me you were in love with me? 
PICARD: You were married to my best friend. At first I thought it was
harmless infatuation. Something hormonal rather than emotional. 
CRUSHER: Then when the months went by and the three of us began
spending more time together. 
PICARD: I realised that it was something else, and it wasn't right. But
although I would never act on it, I couldn't help the way I felt. 
CRUSHER: And when Jack died you felt guilty. 
PICARD: I felt guilty before he died Having feelings like that
for my best friend's wife. And then later, after the accident, I
promised myself that I would never tell you know how I felt. It would
be like betraying my friend 
CRUSHER: That's why you didn't want me on the Enterprise seven years
ago. 
PICARD: I didn't know how I would react. And then, little by little, I
realised that I didn't have those feelings any more. Twenty years is,
after all, a long time. 
CRUSHER: And now we're friends. 
PICARD: Yes, friends. 
CRUSHER: Well, we still have a lot of ground to cover tomorrow. We
should get some sleep. 
PICARD: Right. 
(Beverly lies down near the fire, then Picard lies next to her)

[Bridge]

RIKER: Ambassador, thank you for coming. 
MAURIC: Commander. 
RIKER: We're going to clear up this misunderstanding once and for all.
Hail Minister Lorin, please. 
WORF: Aye, sir. 
LORIN [on viewscreen]: Enterprise, I have warned you about these
unauthorised communications. 
RIKER: Yes, I know, but I think it's about time we all sat down
together and tried to work this out. I have Ambassador Mauric here 
LORIN [on viewscreen]: That is your misfortune. We have nothing to say
to either of you. 
(transmission ends) 
MAURIC: Commander, you're working with the Prytt. Putting on this
little show for my benefit does neither of us any good. 
RIKER: We'll see. Mister Worf. 
(Worf works his panel) 
RIKER: I believe there's someone waiting for us in the Observation
Lounge.

