BOTH RIKER WORF PICARD AIDE MAURIC CRUSHER
kilometres entrance starts carrots needed sensed sense meeting ally

[Cavern]

CRUSHER: There's a ledge about thirty metres up.
That should lead to another tunnel that connects up to the surface. 
PICARD: Right. 
(Picard starts up the rock face) 
PICARD: I heard that. They were not words exactly. A sudden sense of
fear. A sense of fear of heights. 
CRUSHER: So much for that being a fluke. 
PICARD: It was a strange sensation. Suddenly having these thoughts
appear in my mind. 
CRUSHER: If you sensed a fear of heights, you sensed pretty accurately.

PICARD: Come on, you've done this before. It's just like on a holodeck.
One step at a time, just climbing steadily and slowly. 
CRUSHER: Right.

[Kes quarters]

(the Kes have brought in some hardware of their
own. Riker is scanned by the assistant when he enters) 
RIKER: I see you've done some redecorating. 
MAURIC: Just a few pieces of equipment necessary for security reasons.
You understand? 
RIKER: Certainly. 
AIDE: He is all right. 
RIKER: How do you plan to get our people out of Prytt territory? 
MAURIC: You must realise that everything I'm about to say cannot leave
this room. For some time, we have had certain friends among the Prytt.
Citizens who realise that the long struggle between our two peoples can
only end when the Prytt government is made to see reason. 
RIKER: You've recruited a few Prytt spies. 
MAURIC: That's a crude, but accurate term. These friends will be
waiting for your Captain and Doctor when they reach the village of Ohn
Kor near the Kes border. The map we provided your officers will take
them to a tavern there. 
RIKER: Forgive me, Ambassador, but is it wise to send two human
fugitives in Starfleet uniforms into a Prytt village? 
MAURIC: The danger is minimal. Our operatives control almost the whole
village. Once contact has been made with Captain Picard and Doctor
Crusher, our friends will escort them across the border into Kes. 
RIKER: I would still feel better if they could rendezvous with your
operatives in a less public place. 
MAURIC: Commander, I assure you we know what we're doing. We've had a
great deal of experience dealing with the Prytt. We'd hardly risk the
safety of your people. After all, we still hope you will recommend our
entrance into the Federation.

[Planet surface]

(Picard and Crusher walk out of a large cave
entrance into a lightly wooded countryside and walk down a slope) 
PICARD: One of us is hungry. 
CRUSHER: That would be me. 
PICARD: Do you mind thinking of something else. You're making me
hungry. 
CRUSHER: What do you want me to think about? 
PICARD: Something other than a large bowl of vegetable soup. 
CRUSHER: My grandmother used to make it, with peas, carrots and 
PICARD: Beverly! 
CRUSHER: I'm sorry. 
PICARD: I am not being unreasonable. 
CRUSHER: I didn't say that you were. I may have thought it, but there's
a difference. 
PICARD: You're right. We can't react to every random thought that
crosses the other person's mind. Isn't astonishing, though, how much
clutter there is in a consciousness. Odd memories coming to the
surface. Bits
of half-remembered songs. 
CRUSHER: Stray day dreams, scattered minutiae. I wonder how true
telepaths sift through it all. How can they really get to what
someone's thinking if the minds keeps churning all this flotsam to the
surface? That is not funny. 
PICARD: I just wanted to see if you were still listening. 
CRUSHER: I think our link is getting stronger. 
PICARD: Maybe if we put some distance between us, that might weaken it.
Not that I'm growing tired of hearing your most intimate thoughts. 
CRUSHER: Certainly not. 
(they separate, then start to stagger) 
CRUSHER: Jean-Luc. 
PICARD: What happened? 
CRUSHER: I was suddenly overcome with a wave of nausea. 
PICARD: Me, too. 
CRUSHER: There's nothing wrong with either of us. Maybe the air is
toxic. 
(she moves away again, then back quickly) 
PICARD: The same thing. But when you moved back toward me it got
better. Well, it seems as if we're stuck with each other.
(some way further on) 
PICARD: What is it? 
CRUSHER: I'm not sure whether we should go over this hill or that one.
The topography on this map is a little vague. 
PICARD: Let me see. This way. 
CRUSHER: You don't really know, do you? 
PICARD: What? 
CRUSHER: I mean, you're acting like you know exactly which way to go,
but you're only guessing. Do you do this all the time? 
PICARD: No, but there are times when it is necessary for a captain to
give the appearance of confidence. 
(they walk on a little way then he looks at her) 
CRUSHER: I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I just couldn't resist. 
PICARD: I'm beginning to realise that you seem to always have some
acerbic remark on the tip of your tongue. 
CRUSHER: Well at least I've trained myself not to say it anymore. When
I was a little girl, my mouth was always landing me in trouble with my
parents, my teachers. 
PICARD: Your friends. There was someone called Tom Norris? 
CRUSHER: That's right. I had one date with him which I brought to an
abrupt halt with the words, is that a beard or 
BOTH: Is your face dirty? 
PICARD: There's something more. You're laughing, but actually you're
embarrassed by that incident. 
CRUSHER: Yes. I thought I was being cute but I really hurt him. That
was a long time ago. I learned a valuable lesson. 
PICARD: This sharing of thoughts and feelings is quite compelling. 
CRUSHER: Very. We'd better get going. 
(they slither down a loose rock slope then duck behind cover when they
see a Prytt soldier on the next ridge) 
CRUSHER: I don't think so, either. Maybe we can find another way to
reach the village. 
PICARD: No. It's several kilometres to find another way around that
ridge. The border is just two kilometres east of here. There's a
forcefield protecting it, but we can find some way to deal with that
when we get there. Come on.

[Kes quarters]

(once again Riker is scanned as he enters with
Worf) 
AIDE: All right. 
RIKER: Is something wrong? 
MAURIC: Have a seat. Captain Picard and Doctor Crusher didn't show up
at the designated rendezvous point. 
RIKER: Do you know what happened to them? 
MAURIC: No. We have no idea what happened to them. We find it strange
that your officers should follow the escape plan so precisely and then
fail to make the crucial rendezvous with our operatives. 
WORF: It is possible they have been recaptured. 
MAURIC: Our sources would have informed us instantly if that had
happened. Of course, if they weren't captured, if they simply made a
different rendezvous, we might not ever know about it. 
RIKER: A different rendezvous? I'm not sure I know what you mean. 
MAURIC: Of course not. How could you know if your Captain and Doctor
were meeting secretly with the Prytt? Meeting in order to set up a
military alliance with the Federation. 
RIKER: What? 
MAURIC: It was a clever scheme. First, you pretend to lose your
officers during transport, then you ask us for help and get us to
expose several of our undercover operatives in the process. But what
you didn't expect was for us to get your people out of prison so
quickly. They needed more time. They needed more time to plot the
destruction of the Kes with their new Prytt friends. 
RIKER: This is ridiculous. You're beginning to see conspiracies
everywhere. We were invited here by the Kes. Why would we ally
ourselves with the Prytt? 
MAURIC: Indeed, why? 
RIKER: You can believe what you like. We're going to find our people
with or without your help. 
MAURIC: Then I believe it's time for us to be leaving the Enterprise. 
RIKER: Fine. Make sure you take all this junk with you.

