PICARD RIKER DATA LAFORGE RABAL

[Stellar Cartography]

LAFORGE: Everything here supports Serova's
theories. I can't find any way to close the rift or even reduce its
size. 
(rumble and shake) 
DATA: Doctor, is it possible there are areas inside the rift which are
stable, where we can safely use our warp engines? 
RABAL: Perhaps. Computer, scan the rift for regions of low instability.

(off the monitor display) 
RABAL: There's no area stable enough to withstand a warp pulse. 
LAFORGE: Wait a minute. This is strange. Computer, display grid delta
seventeen. Enhance and magnify. What do you make of that? 
RABAL: It's a subspace instability outside the rift. 
DATA: That should not be possible. 
RABAL: Commander, I'm going to begin a field enhanced scan of this
sector. I'd like to take a closer look at this. 
LAFORGE: In the meantime, we'd better tell the Captain we don't know
how to get to the Fleming. 
DATA: I am not certain that is true. I believe I have an idea.

[Ready room]

DATA: I suggest we coast into the rift. 
RIKER: Coast? 
DATA: We can initiate a brief, high intensity warp pulse from our
current position. We should be able to attain sufficient velocity to
enter the rift, beam the crew off the Fleming and exit without using
our warp engines. 
RIKER: All right, let's say we initiate a full power warp pulse. How
much time do we need to drop out of warp? 
DATA: If we field saturate the nacelles, we should be able to sustain
warp speed for approximately two minutes. 
RIKER: That doesn't give us much time, and it could get pretty rough in
there. 
DATA: The timing will be critical. 
PICARD: Begin your calculations, Mister Data. We'll go as soon as
you're ready. 
DATA: Aye, sir.

[Engineering]

DATA: I believe the maximum saturation level should
be eighteen point three percent. 
LAFORGE: All right. With these parameters, we should be able to
maintain warp speed for two minutes eight seconds. I don't think we can
get any more than that. 
DATA: I agree. But based on the size of the rift, it should give us
sufficient time to complete the rescue. Computer, initiate nacelle
field saturation. 
LAFORGE: How did we miss it, Data? 
DATA: I beg your pardon? 
LAFORGE: How did we miss the connection between warp drive and the
formation of the rift? Between the two of us we've logged thousands of
hours on these engines. We're supposed to be warp field experts. We
certainly were wrong this time. 
DATA: Technically, Geordi, we were not wrong. Serova's theories rested
on assumptions which were unprovable. 
LAFORGE: Seems to me she managed to prove them pretty conclusively. 
DATA: By using methods any reputable scientist would never employ. 
LAFORGE: Yeah, she was willing to die to make her point. We should have
listened to her more closely, Data. 
DATA: We reviewed Serova's research to the best of our abilities, and
we were prepared to continue studying the problem. But that was not
satisfactory. 
LAFORGE: Yeah, I can remember times when I was a little stubborn,
trying to get people to believe me when I didn't have enough proof. 
DATA: I do not believe that you would have resorted to such extremes. 
LAFORGE: But she had to, just to get us to listen. Why was I so
resistant? 
DATA: Perhaps because her aggressive methods created an adversarial
situation. 
LAFORGE: Yeah. Maybe I was taking the whole thing personally. 
DATA: I do not understand. 
LAFORGE: Maybe I was a little threatened. The thought that warp engines
might be doing some kind of damage. It's going to take another half an
hour for the nacelles to saturate. Will you call me when they're done? 
