RIKER DATA LAFORGE

[Jefferies tube]

(at a panel in a junction) 
LAFORGE: How's that? 
DATA: One moment. The phase buffer is functioning within normal
parameters. Sensor efficiency has increased by six point seven percent.

LAFORGE: Six point seven? One of the stages must still be out of
alignment. Let's try junction A nine. 
(they climb down one level) 
DATA: Geordi, I have taken your suggestion regarding Spot. 
LAFORGE: Coming down. 
DATA: I have begun training her. 
LAFORGE: Really? 
DATA: Yes. I am studying several new techniques. 
(crawling along) 
DATA: I began with simple conditioned response exercises and followed
with environmental enhancement. Next I plan to explore bioconditioning
devices. 
LAFORGE: Devices? 
DATA: Such as sensor nets for behaviour modification or biofeedback
motivators. Unfortunately, I have been less than successful. 
LAFORGE: I've got an idea. How about a phaser? A low stun setting at
just the right moment might do the trick. 
DATA: Geordi. I cannot stun my cat. 
LAFORGE: I was kidding, Data. (at a panel) Let's see what we've got.
No, this isn't it, either. 
DATA: Clearly there is a misalignment somewhere in this system. 
LAFORGE: That's for sure. Well, we've got one more possibility.
Junction C twelve. 
DATA: I am somewhat concerned that my training efforts will ultimately
fail. 
LAFORGE: Maybe you're just going about it the wrong way, Data. 
DATA: I have consulted numerous animal training manuals. Some of them
claim that cats are inherently untrainable. 
LAFORGE: I don't believe that for a second. Listen to me. My sister
didn't know a thing about animals and she was able to train her cat.
How complicated could it be? 
DATA: What did she train her cat to do? 
LAFORGE: She had that cat jumping into her arms on command. 
DATA: Interesting. Perhaps I could modify your sister's techniques to
keep Spot from jumping on console. Do you know how she was able to
train her cat? 
LAFORGE: Well, as I recall, she walked around for two months with a
piece of tuna in her blouse. 
(at the next junction) 
LAFORGE: I was right. This buffer is out of alignment. Okay, try that. 
DATA: Phase alignment is stabilised. However, sensor efficiency has
increased by only an additional one point three percent. 
LAFORGE: It's not much, but every little bit going to help. 
RIKER [OC]: Riker to Data. 
DATA: Data here. 
RIKER [OC]: We're picking up a ship ahead on long range sensors. If you
and Geordi are through down there, we'd like to have you on the Bridge.

LAFORGE: We're not going to squeeze anything else out of these systems.

DATA: Acknowledged, sir. We are on our way.

