RIKER [OC] DATA LAFORGE
corridor bed ow range computer common misbehaving smashed definitely

  [La
Forge's quarters]

(Data enters and sees a smashed flower vase on a
table, then hears a cat's snarl) 
DATA: Geordi? 
LAFORGE: In here, Data. 
(the bedroom) 
LAFORGE: Got her now. She's trapped. Come on out of there, you. Hey,
don't you spit at me. 
DATA: Why is Spot under the bed? 
LAFORGE: Probably because she knows if I catch her, I'm going to kill
her. 
DATA: Has Spot been misbehaving? 
LAFORGE: So far she's broken a vase, a teapot, she's ruined one of my
chairs using it as a scratch post, and she's coughing hairballs up all
over my carpet. 
DATA: These incidents are common to cat owners. When you borrowed Spot,
you said you wanted to experience the full range of feline behaviour
before getting a cat yourself. 
LAFORGE: Yeah, well, I'm not ready. You can take her back with my
blessings. Go ahead, call her. 
DATA: Spot does not respond to verbal commands. 
LAFORGE: She won't come when you call her? Data, have you ever
considered training this cat? 
DATA: I never found it to be necessary. 
LAFORGE: Necessary? Data, the cat is out of control. Half the time I
wasn't sure if she was going to lick me or scratch my face off. 
DATA: I have never experienced this kind of behaviour in Spot. Although
she does have the unfortunate habit of jumping on my computer console
when I am working. 
LAFORGE: She needs training. 
RIKER [OC]: Riker to senior staff. Please report to the Observation
lounge. Mission briefing in ten minutes. 
LAFORGE: Right, we have to get her out of here. I'll scare her. You
grab her when she comes out, okay? 
DATA: I do not think it would be wise to startle her. 
LAFORGE: Ready? Ow! 
(Spot runs out and there's a crash sound) 
LAFORGE: Training. Definitely.

Captain's log, Stardate 47310.2. We're
investigating the disappearance of the Medical Transport Fleming
somewhere in the Hekaras Corridor. Our search is complicated by the
unique properties of this particular region of space.

