SEROVA LAFORGE PICARD RABAL RIKER [OC] DATA
sound theory able travel subspace regions shouldn properly theoretical

[Engineering]

SEROVA: There. Shields have been restored. You will
be able to reengage your engines in approximately eight hours. 
LAFORGE: You know, even when we get the engines online, it's going to
take at least a week to recalibrate them properly. 
SEROVA: I'm sorry you've been inconvenienced. But that's all it is, an
inconvenience. Our concerns are much more important than the condition
of your engines. 
LAFORGE: What if the Fleming had been transporting perishable supplies
or was on an emergency mission? Your little plan might have cost a lot
of lives. 
SEROVA: That didn't happen, Commander. And saving lives is precisely
what we're trying to do. 
LAFORGE: Yeah, well, you have a very interesting way of going about it.

SEROVA: There's no point in trying to talk to you. You've already
decided not to listen. 
(Serova leaves) 
RABAL: Commander, I know my sister can be somewhat, er, aggravating. 
LAFORGE: I'd have to agree with that. 
RABAL: But please, try to understand. She believes profoundly in this
cause. She has sworn to dedicate her life to exposing the dangers of
warp drive. 
LAFORGE: Warp drive has been around for three centuries. It's a proven
technology. 
RABAL: And you sound just like I did, about four years ago. 
LAFORGE: You mean you didn't believe her either? 
RABAL: No. What I didn't realise was just how brilliant my sister is.
It took two years of study for me even to grasp the principles behind
her theoretical models. They're that sophisticated. 
LAFORGE: Well our Commander Data's no slouch. If there's anything
there, he'll find it. 
RABAL: Well I hope so, because once we persuade Starfleet to stop warp
travel through the Corridor, we're going to have to convince our own
people to give up warp drive completely. 
LAFORGE: Hekaras Two is the only inhabited world in this region.
Without warp drive, you'd be completely isolated from the rest of the
Federation. Are you really willing to take that step? 
RABAL: Yes. And if you were in my position, I hope you'd be willing to
do the same thing.

[Stellar Cartography]

DATA: Serova and Rabal believe there are regions of
potential subspace instability within the Corridor. They believe that
if these regions continue to be exposed to warp field energy, they will
rupture. Subspace will extrude into normal space, forming a rift. 
PICARD: It's like pacing up and down on the same piece of carpet.
Eventually you wear it out. 
DATA: That analogy is essentially correct, sir. 
PICARD: Can this theory be proven? 
DATA: Not at this time, sir. There is insufficient evidence to do so.
In order to determine whether or not a rift will form, region must be
exposed to warp field energy approximately one million times greater
than that normally generated by a starship. 
RABAL: Commander, we believe the warp field effect is cumulative. Each
starship that passes through the Corridor at warp brings us one step
closer to forming a rift. 
DATA: I agree that is a possibility. Captain, I suggest we ask the
Federation Science Council to send a research vessel to this area. A
more detailed investigation would resolve many of our questions. 
SEROVA: That's your response? More research? More delays. I suppose I
shouldn't have expected anything different. 
RIKER [OC]: Bridge to Captain Picard. 
PICARD: Go ahead, Number One. 
RIKER [OC]: We've located the 
