RIKER LAFORGE WORF PICARD COMPUTER DATA

[Engineering]

LAFORGE: Data, keep the EPS flow constant will you,
while I re modulate the power taps. 
DATA: This procedure will only increase the conversion level by point
eight percent. 
LAFORGE: I know, but it could be just enough. 
DATA: Enough? 
LAFORGE: I just received this from Commander Kaplan, subspace. 
(Data reads from a PADD) 
DATA: La Forge, I got the Intrepid's power conversion levels up to
ninety seven point one percent. Maybe you should try cleaning your
plasma grid once in a while. 
LAFORGE: Can you believe the nerve of that guy? 
DATA: We perform maintenance on the plasma grid at regular intervals. 
LAFORGE: I know. He's just trying to get me angry. There. That should
do it. Computer, what are the current power conversion levels? 
COMPUTER: Power conversion levels are at ninety seven point two
percent. 
LAFORGE: Too bad, Mister Kaplan. 
Captain's log, supplemental. We have traced the
Fleming's most likely course. It now appears that the vessel may have
come to an unfortunate end.

[Bridge]

(at the science station, grid search pattern
H522-3) 
PICARD: What's the origin of this debris field? 
DATA: Unknown, sir. It does not appear in any Federation charts of the
Corridor. 
PICARD: Could it be what's left of the Fleming? 
DATA: It is a possibility. The debris consists primarily of duranium
and polycomposite fragments which suggest a ship. Furthermore, the
field contains sufficient mass to account for the Fleming. 
PICARD: All right, let's take a closer look. Perhaps we can find
something that will give us a more positive identification. Helm, take
us through the debris field, ahead slow. 
DATA: Captain, I am picking up a small metallic object, approximately
three point five metres in diameter. 
RIKER: Could be a ship's log recorder, or a probe casing. 
DATA: I do not believe so. It is emitting an unusual signal. Captain,
it is beginning to generate a verteron field. 
PICARD: Shields up! Full reverse. Now! 
(a sound, then the lights dim) 
PICARD: Damage report. 
WORF: Warp engines are offline. Shields are down. All subspace systems
are inoperative. 
RIKER: Just like the Ferengi ship. 
DATA: Unidentified ship heading toward us. Two life forms are aboard. 
PICARD: On screen. 
DATA: Captain, they are initiating their transporter system. 
PICARD: Can we get more power to the shields? 
WORF: No, sir. 
RIKER: All decks, security alert. 
DATA: Captain, we are being boarded. 
LAFORGE [OC]: La Forge to Bridge.

