PICARD RIKER SEROVA RABAL LAFORGE
don centuries interesting profoundly realise recalibrate report theoretical present

[Observation lounge]

PICARD: You have made a very serious accusation. I
want you to explain it. 
RABAL: Captain, according to our research, warp fields cause a
dangerous reaction in this region of space. 
SEROVA: Our planet is already being affected. We have measured large
gravitational shifts throughout our system. 
RABAL: If something isn't done, our planet will become uninhabitable. 
LAFORGE: Captain, I've heard this theory before. Their research was
evaluated by the Federation Science Council a few years ago. Quite
frankly, it didn't hold up. 
SEROVA: That research was only preliminary. Our original analysis was
incomplete. 
PICARD: If you wanted us to review your research, you should have made
a request through the Science Council. 
RABAL: Their resources are limited. It would have taken over a year
before they dispatched a science ship to come and evaluate our work. 
SEROVA: We were not willing to wait any longer. We knew that if we
disabled enough ships, Starfleet would come. Then at least we would be
able to present our case. 
RIKER: That's how you rationalise these attacks? 
SEROVA: Neither you nor the Ferengi suffered any casualties, Commander.
The actual damage to your vessels was negligible. 
RABAL: We dispersed verteron probes in the Corridor merely to disable
warp-driven ships. Nothing more. 
RIKER: You can call it whatever you like. The fact remains you
deliberately disguised your probes. You made them look like signal
markers. You hid them in debris field. You mined the Corridor. 
PICARD: Mister La Forge, how long do you estimate it will take to
restore the engines? 
LAFORGE: Their verteron pulse overloaded our field coils, Captain.
It'll take at least thirty six hours to get underway. 
SEROVA: I know precisely how our pulse affected your field coils. With
my help, your ship could be operational in ten hours. Provided you
agree to review our research. 
PICARD: Because of the seriousness of your claim, I'm willing to listen
to your case. But let there be no mistake. Our priority here is the
recovery of the Fleming. Now I expect you to help us restore our
engines and deactivate all of the remaining probes in the Corridor. If
you do not, you will both be taken to the brig and from there to the
nearest Starbase, where you will answer charges for what you have done.

RABAL: My sister and I do not wish to impede your rescue process. 
SEROVA: Rabal, don't. The probes are the only leverage we have. If we 
RABAL: Serova. We will do as you ask, Captain. But please, re-examine
our data. 
PICARD: We will. It is part of our job to retain an open mind, even
under these circumstances. Mister La Forge, take them to Engineering.
Get the core back online. 
LAFORGE: Yes, sir. 
PICARD: Mister Data, I want you to review their research. I'd like your
report as soon as possible.

[Engineering]

SEROVA: There. Shields have been restored. You will
be able to reengage your engines in approximately eight hours. 
LAFORGE: You know, even when we get the engines online, it's going to
take at least a week to recalibrate them properly. 
SEROVA: I'm sorry you've been inconvenienced. But that's all it is, an
inconvenience. Our concerns are much more important than the condition
of your engines. 
LAFORGE: What if the Fleming had been transporting perishable supplies
or was on an emergency mission? Your little plan might have cost a lot
of lives. 
SEROVA: That didn't happen, Commander. And saving lives is precisely
what we're trying to do. 
LAFORGE: Yeah, well, you have a very interesting way of going about it.

SEROVA: There's no point in trying to talk to you. You've already
decided not to listen. 
(Serova leaves) 
RABAL: Commander, I know my sister can be somewhat, er, aggravating. 
LAFORGE: I'd have to agree with that. 
RABAL: But please, try to understand. She believes profoundly in this
cause. She has sworn to dedicate her life to exposing the dangers of
warp drive. 
LAFORGE: Warp drive has been around for three centuries. It's a proven
technology. 
RABAL: And you sound just like I did, about four years ago. 
LAFORGE: You mean you didn't believe her either? 
RABAL: No. What I didn't realise was just how brilliant my sister is.
It took two years of study for me even to grasp the principles behind
her theoretical models. They're that sophisticated. 
LAFORGE: Well our Commander Data's no slouch. If there's anything
there, he'll find it. 
RABAL: Well I hope so, because once we persuade Starfleet to stop warp
travel through the Corridor, we're going to have to convince our own
people to give up warp drive completely. 
LAFORGE: Hekaras Two is the only inhabited world in this region.
Without warp drive, you'd be completely isolated from the rest of the
Federation. Are you really willing to take that step? 
RABAL: Yes. And if you were in my position, I hope you'd be willing to
do the same thing.

