RIKER LAFORGE WORF PICARD LAFORGE [OC] DATA
forced attempting sufficient interference pulse wave systems time using

[Engineering]

LAFORGE: Initiating warp pulse now.

[Bridge]

DATA: Engines disengaged. We are now entering the
rift. (rumble) Hull stress is increasing. Eighty three percent of
maximum tolerance and rising. 
PICARD: How long until we reach the Fleming? 
WORF: One minute twenty two seconds. 
RIKER: All transporter rooms are standing by. 
WORF: Captain, I am picking up power emissions from the Fleming. They
may be attempting to initiate their warp drive. 
RIKER: They might have been able to repair their engines. 
DATA: Captain, if they activate 
PICARD: I know, Mister Data. Can we establish communication? 
WORF: No, sir. Subspace interference is too high. 
PICARD: How long until we reach transporter range? 
WORF: Fifty three seconds. 
RIKER: I don't think we're going to make it. 
WORF: Captain, they have initiated their warp drive. 
(big rumble) 
PICARD: Report. 
WORF: Damage on decks six and fourteen. Our structural integrity field
is holding. 
RIKER: What about the Fleming? 
DATA: They are badly damaged, sir. Their life support systems are
failing. 
RIKER: All transporter rooms, prepare emergency evacuation procedures. 
DATA: Captain, when the Fleming activated their warp drive, the rift
expanded by two point three percent. We no longer have sufficient
momentum to escape. 
(rumble) 
DATA: Distortion wave intensity has increased by a factor of ten. 
WORF: We are within transporter range of the Fleming, sir. Commencing
evacuation procedures. 
DATA: Distortion waves occurring every fifty nine seconds. Hull stress
is nearing maximum tolerance. 
RIKER: Data, what if we forced an EPS discharge through the impulse
reactor. Would that be enough to get us out of here? 
DATA: I do not believe so, sir, and the resulting explosion would
likely destroy the saucer section in the process. 
LAFORGE [OC]: Captain 
[Engineering]

LAFORGE: We might be able to get out of here
without using the warp engines. 
RIKER: How, Geordi? 
LAFORGE: When was the last time you went surfing, Commander? 
