RIKER SEROVA LAFORGE WORF PICARD SEROVA [on viewscreen] RABAL RIKER [OC] HELM DATA
risk attempting accelerating years board position helm close size

[Stellar Cartography]

PICARD: We'll be underway as soon as our engines
are online. 
RIKER [OC]: Aye, sir. 
PICARD: I would like you all to put together a research proposal for
the Science Council. I'll give it my full recommendation. 
RABAL: Captain, I appreciate the opportunity you're giving us. It's a
beginning that we need 
SEROVA: Not we. You can do whatever you want, Rabal. I'll have no part
of this. It's just another delay.

[Bridge]

LAFORGE: Captain, the engines are back online. All
systems are ready. 
PICARD: Very good. Helm, lay in a course for the Fleming. 
HELM: Aye, sir. 
RIKER: They appear to be in pretty good condition. According to our
sensors their shields back to full strength. 
WORF: Captain, the Hekaran ship is moving off. There is one person on
board. It is Serova. 
PICARD: Doctor, what is going on? 
RABAL: I don't know. Captain, may I speak to her? 
PICARD: Mister Worf, open a channel. 
RABAL: Serova, what are you trying to do? 
SEROVA [on viewscreen]: They wanted proof. I'm going to give it to
them. I'm sorry. 
DATA: Captain, the Hekaran ship's engines are beginning to overload. I
believe Serova's attempting to create a warp core breach. 
RABAL: No! 
RIKER: Prepare for impact. 
(KaBOOM! and a purple afterglow) 
RIKER: Shields at maximum. Full reverse. 
PICARD: Report! 
DATA: We have cleared the shock wave. However, tetryon flux in the area
is increasing rapidly. 
(there's a swirly thing in the middle of the purple) 
RIKER: It's incredible. 
PICARD: Mister Data, what's your analysis? 
DATA: The event is approximately zero point one light years in
diameter, and it is emitting extremely high levels of tetryon
radiation. It appears to be what Rabal and Serova predicted, a subspace
rift. 
LAFORGE: She was right. 
PICARD: Can you get a fix on the Fleming? Is she still in one piece? 
DATA: Scanning. The Fleming is near its previous coordinates. It
appears to be intact, but it is now within the rift. 
PICARD: Doctor, is it possible for a ship to survive in there? Doctor.
I'm sorry about your loss but we need your help now. 
RABAL: Of course, Captain. 
PICARD: Does the rift pose any danger to the Fleming? 
RABAL: I don't know. 
(Enterprise shakes) 
RIKER: What was that? 
LAFORGE: Some kind of high energy distortion wave. Looks like they're
being generated from within the rift. 
DATA: IF we maintain our current position, our shields should provide
sufficient protection. 
PICARD: What about the Fleming? How long can they survive in there? 
DATA: The waves are even more intense within the rift. I estimate her
shields will fail in approximately twelve hours. 
RIKER: Can we risk going in there to get them out? 
LAFORGE: Not at warp, Commander. According to these readings, the rift
is in a state of accelerating instability which would make it extremely
sensitive to warp field energy. If we go in at warp, we might make it
expand even further. 
RIKER: I don't think we have a choice. It would take weeks to reach
them at impulse. 
PICARD: I want some better options. Data, Geordi, take Doctor Rabal and
begin an analysis of the rift. We need to find some way to get the
Fleming out of there.

Second Officer's log, stardate 47312.1. Our new
sensor readings have greatly improved our understanding of the rift.
However, we have been unable to find any way to counteract it.

[Stellar Cartography]

LAFORGE: Everything here supports Serova's
theories. I can't find any way to close the rift or even reduce its
size. 
(rumble and shake) 
DATA: Doctor, is it possible there are areas inside the rift which are
stable, where we can safely use our warp engines? 
RABAL: Perhaps. Computer, scan the rift for regions of low instability.

(off the monitor display) 
RABAL: There's no area stable enough to withstand a warp pulse. 
LAFORGE: Wait a minute. This is strange. Computer, display grid delta
seventeen. Enhance and magnify. What do you make of that? 
RABAL: It's a subspace instability outside the rift. 
DATA: That should not be possible. 
RABAL: Commander, I'm going to begin a field enhanced scan of this
sector. I'd like to take a closer look at this. 
LAFORGE: In the meantime, we'd better tell the Captain we don't know
how to get to the Fleming. 
DATA: I am not certain that is true. I believe I have an idea.

