RIKER LAFORGE WORF PICARD PRAK [on viewscreen] HELM DATA
case prepare beams stranded approximately actions helm close tractor

[Bridge]

WORF: We are within visual range, sir. 
PICARD: On screen. 
WORF: It is a Ferengi transport ship, D'Kora class. 
RIKER: That's the same Ferengi vessel that entered the Corridor a week
ago. 
LAFORGE: Captain, there are no emissions from their plasma vents. Their
warp drive must be completely inactive. 
DATA: That is correct, sir. Their impulse system is down as well, Power
generation is at extremely low levels. 
PICARD: What about life signs? 
DATA: Life support systems are also functioning at low levels. There
are approximately four hundred fifty Ferengi on board. That is a
standard complement for a ship of that class. 
PICARD: Mister Worf, open a hailing frequency. 
WORF: There is no response on any channel, sir. 
LAFORGE: I'm not picking any subspace emissions from the ship at all,
Captain. It looks like every one of their field coils has been
overloaded. 
RIKER: That would explain why they haven't respond to our hails. 
DATA: It would also explain the failure of their warp drive. 
LAFORGE: Captain, Ferengi sensors are still online. I could modify one
of our deflector emitters to transmit old style delta waves. If I
modulate that with a comm. signal, the Ferengi should be able to pick
that up. 
PICARD: Make it so. 
RIKER: If they did hijack the Fleming, they sure didn't get very far
with the cargo. 
PICARD: Mister Worf, have tractor beams standing by. We may have to
take them under tow. Helm, take us within tractor range. 
HELM: (female) Aye, sir. 
WORF: Captain, I am picking up power emissions from the Ferengi ship.
They are locking weapons. 
PICARD: Shields up. 
(the Enterprise gets hit) 
RIKER: Ready phasers. Prepare to return fire. 
PICARD: Target their weapons array only. 
WORF: Phasers locked. 
PICARD: Fire. 
DATA: Direct hit. Their weapon systems are down. 
PICARD: Damage report. 
WORF: We sustained minimal damage to decks five and seven, sir. 
DATA: Sir, the Ferengi ship's power has stabilised. They appear to have
impulse capability. 
RIKER: They were just playing dead. Conserving power until we got in
close enough. 
PICARD: But why would they attack us in the first place? 
RIKER: Somehow I don't think they'll let us beam over there and ask
them. 
PICARD: Mister La Forge, how are you coming with that comm. link? 
LAFORGE: Almost ready, Captain. All right, let's give it a try. 
PICARD: Open a channel. 
(a fuzzy viewscreen image that La Forge cleans up) 
PICARD: This is Captain Jean-Luc Picard of the Enterprise. Will you
please explain why you attacked us? 
PRAK [on viewscreen]: Our attack? We were defending ourselves. Do you
deny that you are responsible for disabling my vessel? 
PICARD: DaiMon, your ship was adrift, your communications inoperative.
We were attempting to assess your status. 
PRAK [on viewscreen]: You were attempting to move in for the kill. Do
not toy with me, Picard. We are obviously at your mercy, but know this.
When the Ferengi Council learns of your actions, they will consider
this an act of war. 
PICARD: DaiMon, clearly there has been some misunderstanding. I think
it would be in all interests if you were to come aboard and we discuss
this situation. 
PRAK [on viewscreen]: I see no reason to trust you, human. 
PICARD: In that case, we'll be on our way. I'll relay your position to
your government if you wish, in case you're unable to complete your
repairs and you remain stranded. 
PRAK [on viewscreen]: Perhaps it would be better to discuss the
situation. 
