RIKER LAFORGE WORF DATA [OC] RIKER [OC] JULIANA DATA PRAN
layers hard knows worf didn broken incapable nineteen clothes

[Engineering]

DATA: We will be in position over the drilling site
in three minutes twenty nine seconds. 
(Juliana rests her hand on his shoulder) 
DATA: These scans indicate that the magma pockets where we plan to set
up the infusion units are somewhat unstable. 
JULIANA: I'm going to monitor the density of the rock layers and adjust
the strength of the particle beam as we go. That should minimise the
seismic stress that we generate while we're drilling. 
LAFORGE: Data, I reconfigured the phasers to create the most highly
focused particle beam possible. 
DATA: Thank you, Geordi. 
JULIANA: I'm just so pleased you've got good manners. It wasn't easy to
strike the right balance with your programming. At first you couldn't
have cared less about the social niceties like please and thank you.
You were downright rude, in fact. 
LAFORGE: Data? That's hard to picture. 
JULIANA: That was nothing to the problems we encountered. Never mind. I
don't want to embarrass you. 
DATA: I am incapable of embarrassment. Please continue. 
JULIANA: Well, the one thing we couldn't anticipate was that you didn't
seem to mind about being naked. Some of the colonists objected to
having an anatomically correct android running around without any
clothes on. We asked you to dress, but you didn't feel it was necessary
because you didn't suffer from the elements. We actually had to write a
modesty sub-routine to get you to keep your clothes on. 
RIKER [OC]: Bridge to Engineering. 
LAFORGE: La Forge here. Go ahead, Commander. 
RIKER [OC]: We've established a synchronous orbit over the drilling
site. 
LAFORGE: Phaser modifications are online, sir. 
DATA: My calculations indicate 
[Bridge]

DATA [OC]: The first phaser blast will be
approximately nineteen seconds in duration. 
RIKER: Acknowledged. 
PRAN: Someone's checked his calculations, of course. 
RIKER: No, but I'm sure Mister Data knows what he's doing. 
PRAN: Even so, he is a machine. Someone should check up on him. 
RIKER: I have complete confidence in Mister Data's ability to check up
on himself. Mister Worf? 
WORF: Phasers locked on target. 
RIKER: Fire when ready.

[Engineering]

DATA: We are within two kilometres of the magma
pocket. 
JULIANA: Another five seconds should do it. We've broken through. 
