RIKER LAFORGE DATA [OC] RIKER [OC] JULIANA AUDIENCE DATA PRAN
attempt watching bravo reactivated turned stops decided picking yes

[Ten Forward]

(the place is empty so they are practising here) 
DATA: The acoustics in Ten Forward are most favourable. 
JULIANA: Yes, yes, very nice. Data, may I ask you something? 
DATA: Of course. 
JULIANA: Do you think you'll ever try to create an android again? 
DATA: Perhaps. I created Lal because I wished to procreate. Despite
what happened to her, I still have that wish. 
JULIANA: How do you know the same thing won't happen? Creating a stable
positronic matrix is very tricky. Your father lost several prototypes
before Lore. 
DATA: I was not aware he created other androids before my brother. 
JULIANA: There were three of them. They were like children to us.
Losing them was very painful. When Noonian decided to try again, I was
very much against it. I didn't think we had the right to bring a life
into the world with so little chance of surviving. But your Father was
sure that he'd figured out what went wrong, insisted he could make a
stable matrix, and he did. But Lore was cruel. Evil. Eventually we had
no choice, we had to dismantle him. Your father decided to build yet
another android, one who didn't have emotions. I couldn't believe he
would want to try again. 
DATA: I am that android. Are you saying you were against my creation? 
JULIANA: Initially I was. But I was wrong, I know that now. I've
followed your progress for years. I'm very proud of what you've
accomplished. 
DATA: Then why did you never attempt to contact me? 
JULIANA: Because I felt guilty about something I'd done. 
DATA: Perhaps if you told me what has made you feel this way, it may
alleviated the guilt. 
JULIANA: I lied. When I said there was no room for you in the escape
pod that we took from Omicron. There was. I didn't want to bring you
with us. I was afraid if we reactivated you, you'd turn out like Lore.
I made Noonian leave you behind. 
[Engineering]

DATA: We are within four kilometres of the magma
pocket. 
(the ship starts shaking) 
LAFORGE: We're picking up feedback pulses along the particle beam. 
JULIANA: We must have hit a pocket of magnesite ore. I'll try to adjust
the phaser harmonics to compensate. 
RIKER [OC]: Data, we're going to have to terminate the beam if this
keeps up. 
DATA: If we do, we will have to begin a new shaft at a suitable
location. 
JULIANA: There is no other suitable location. Just give me a few more
seconds. 
LAFORGE: Doctor, it's going to take longer than that to match the 
(the shaking stops) 
LAFORGE: You did it. 
JULIANA: It was just luck I hit the right frequency. All right, we're
less than two kilometres away from the target site. Stand by to
terminate the beam. 
LAFORGE: We've broken through. 
JULIANA: Now. 
DATA: I am detecting no signs of 
[Bridge]

DATA [OC]: Instability. 
PRAN: Commander, may I suggest we set up the infusion unit in the first
magma pocket and give this one a chance to cool. 
RIKER: Data 
[Engineering]

RIKER [OC]: Doctor Tainer, we'll meet you in
transporter room two. 
DATA: Acknowledged.

[Magma pocket]

(a nice big cave with a lovely flat floor) 
DATA: I have initialised the plasma induction coils. 
JULIANA: I'll need another minute to align the diverter. 
(Data is watching Juliana very carefully) 
PRAN: There are signs of stress in the surrounding magma, but the site
should remain stable until we finish the plasma infusion. 
JULIANA: Good, we're almost done here. 
PRAN: Data, Juliana told me what she said to you last night. She's been
very upset. I don't blame you for being angry with her 
DATA: I am incapable of anger. 
JULIANA: It's all right, Pran. I know what I said to you must have been
hard to hear, but I hope you understand my reasons. 
DATA: I am not certain I do. Perhaps you could clarify them for me? 
JULIANA: Well, I'll try. What do you want to know? 
DATA: If I had been your biological offspring, would you have left me
on Omicron Theta? 
JULIANA: Oh, Data, how can I answer that? 
DATA: Doctor Tainer, I get the impression you are trying to spare my
feelings. I assure you that is not necessary. 
JULIANA: I just don't want you to misunderstand my answer. No, I
wouldn't have left you behind if you'd been my biological child. 
DATA: Is that because you place more value on biological life than on
artificial life? 
JULIANA: Absolutely not. I cherished every android your father and I
created as if it were my child. Even Lore. Despite the fact that he
turned on us, despite the dreadful things he did, dismantling him was
the most difficult thing I ever had to do. I was afraid that if you
turned out like him I would have to dismantle you, too. And I couldn't
bear to do that. I'm not trying to justify leaving you behind. I'm just
sorry I did. I hope you believe me. 
DATA: I do. Thank you for making it clear to me.

[Ten Forward]

(Data and Juliana finish their recital to applause)

AUDIENCE: Bravo, bravo.

