RIKER LAFORGE JULIANA AUDIENCE CRUSHER DATA PRAN

[Engineering]

RIKER [OC]: Doctor Tainer, we'll meet you in
transporter room two. 
DATA: Acknowledged.

[Magma pocket]

(a nice big cave with a lovely flat floor) 
DATA: I have initialised the plasma induction coils. 
JULIANA: I'll need another minute to align the diverter. 
(Data is watching Juliana very carefully) 
PRAN: There are signs of stress in the surrounding magma, but the site
should remain stable until we finish the plasma infusion. 
JULIANA: Good, we're almost done here. 
PRAN: Data, Juliana told me what she said to you last night. She's been
very upset. I don't blame you for being angry with her 
DATA: I am incapable of anger. 
JULIANA: It's all right, Pran. I know what I said to you must have been
hard to hear, but I hope you understand my reasons. 
DATA: I am not certain I do. Perhaps you could clarify them for me? 
JULIANA: Well, I'll try. What do you want to know? 
DATA: If I had been your biological offspring, would you have left me
on Omicron Theta? 
JULIANA: Oh, Data, how can I answer that? 
DATA: Doctor Tainer, I get the impression you are trying to spare my
feelings. I assure you that is not necessary. 
JULIANA: I just don't want you to misunderstand my answer. No, I
wouldn't have left you behind if you'd been my biological child. 
DATA: Is that because you place more value on biological life than on
artificial life? 
JULIANA: Absolutely not. I cherished every android your father and I
created as if it were my child. Even Lore. Despite the fact that he
turned on us, despite the dreadful things he did, dismantling him was
the most difficult thing I ever had to do. I was afraid that if you
turned out like him I would have to dismantle you, too. And I couldn't
bear to do that. I'm not trying to justify leaving you behind. I'm just
sorry I did. I hope you believe me. 
DATA: I do. Thank you for making it clear to me.

[Ten Forward]

(Data and Juliana finish their recital to applause)

AUDIENCE: Bravo, bravo.

[Sickbay]

CRUSHER: Data, why do you want to look at Doctor
Tainer's medical records? Is something wrong with her? 
DATA: I was hoping you would be able to determine that from her
transporter trace pattern. 
CRUSHER: Well, probably I could, but ordinarily I don't check
somebody's medical status without a good reason. 
DATA: Doctor, I would ask that you not require me to be more specific.
I assure you, I have a good reason for asking. 
CRUSHER: All right, Data. At first glance I see nothing wrong with her.
Except for a mild case of hypertension, which is normal for a woman her
age. 
DATA: I see. 
CRUSHER: Maybe you should tell me what her symptoms are. 
DATA: She has not complained of any discomfort. 
CRUSHER: Then why do you want to see her medical records? 
DATA: Because I have reason to believe she is not who she claims to be.

RIKER [OC]: Bridge to Data. 
DATA: Go ahead, sir. 
RIKER [OC]: There's been a cave-in in one of the magma pockets. You're
needed in transporter room two. 
DATA: On my way. Excuse me, Doctor.

[Transporter room]

(Juliana and Data enter) 
JULIANA: What happened? 
(Pran is injured) 
PRAN: We were running a final check on the infusion units when a part
of the wall gave way. 
LAFORGE: It looks like the area has stabilised, but seismic stress is
building up. Eventually, the pocket will collapse. 
RIKER [OC]: How long, Geordi? 
LAFORGE: It's tough to tell, Commander. Twelve hours at most. 
JULIANA: Then we must finish configuring the unit and inject the plasma
immediately. 
[Bridge]

RIKER: I'd rather not send anyone back down there. 
JULIANA [OC]: If you don't do it 
