RIKER JULIANA DATA LAFORGE PRAN

[Engineering]

DATA: The drilling process has raised the
temperature in the magma pockets by almost three hundred degrees
Celsius. It will be several hours before it cools enough for us to
enter. 
JULIANA: Data, do you have any plans right now? 
DATA: I do not. 
JULIANA: Maybe we should spend a little time together? I'd love to see
your quarters. 
[Data's quarters]

(Data plays violin for her. Juliana applauds) 
DATA: Thank you. I will be playing this piece at a recital tomorrow
evening. 
JULIANA: That was beautiful. 
DATA: I have been told that my playing is technically flawless, but no
one has described it as beautiful. 
JULIANA: It was, really. 
DATA: Are you certain you are not saying this because you are my
mother? I have noticed that parents tend to exaggerate when it comes to
their children's accomplishments. 
JULIANA: I suppose there's a certain amount of vanity involved,
considering that giving you a creative aspect was my idea. Your father
didn't really see the point. He thought that since you didn't have
emotions, there would be no real need for you to express yourself.
Somehow I had the feeling the opposite would be true. 
DATA: I do not know for certain, but I believe it is during my creative
endeavours that I come closest to experiencing what it must be like to
be human. 
JULIANA: Well, I'm glad I insisted. 
DATA: As am I. 
JULIANA: Data, I'm very familiar with that Handel piece. How would you
feel about my playing the viola part tomorrow? 
DATA: I would like that very much. 
JULIANA: I'll have to practice. You don't have a viola? 
DATA: I could replicate one for you. Computer, please replicate one
viola. 
JULIANA: Did you paint these? 
DATA: Yes. I am attempting to master all known styles of painting. This
one is in the style of the early French impressionists. 
JULIANA: It's very good. Who's this? 
DATA: That is Lal, my daughter. 
JULIANA: Your daughter? 
DATA: I created her, using myself as a model. 
JULIANA: Where is she now? 
DATA: The positronic matrix I designed for her was unstable. She only
lived a short time. 
JULIANA: I see. 
DATA: In a sense, you were her grandmother. Would you like to practice
now? 
JULIANA: Yes. Yes, of course. 
[Ten Forward]

(the place is empty so they are practising here) 
DATA: The acoustics in Ten Forward are most favourable. 
JULIANA: Yes, yes, very nice. Data, may I ask you something? 
DATA: Of course. 
JULIANA: Do you think you'll ever try to create an android again? 
DATA: Perhaps. I created Lal because I wished to procreate. Despite
what happened to her, I still have that wish. 
JULIANA: How do you know the same thing won't happen? Creating a stable
positronic matrix is very tricky. Your father lost several prototypes
before Lore. 
DATA: I was not aware he created other androids before my brother. 
JULIANA: There were three of them. They were like children to us.
Losing them was very painful. When Noonian decided to try again, I was
very much against it. I didn't think we had the right to bring a life
into the world with so little chance of surviving. But your Father was
sure that he'd figured out what went wrong, insisted he could make a
stable matrix, and he did. But Lore was cruel. Evil. Eventually we had
no choice, we had to dismantle him. Your father decided to build yet
another android, one who didn't have emotions. I couldn't believe he
would want to try again. 
DATA: I am that android. Are you saying you were against my creation? 
JULIANA: Initially I was. But I was wrong, I know that now. I've
followed your progress for years. I'm very proud of what you've
accomplished. 
DATA: Then why did you never attempt to contact me? 
JULIANA: Because I felt guilty about something I'd done. 
DATA: Perhaps if you told me what has made you feel this way, it may
alleviated the guilt. 
JULIANA: I lied. When I said there was no room for you in the escape
pod that we took from Omicron. There was. I didn't want to bring you
with us. I was afraid if we reactivated you, you'd turn out like Lore.
I made Noonian leave you behind. 
[Engineering]

DATA: We are within four kilometres of the magma
pocket. 
(the ship starts shaking) 
LAFORGE: We're picking up feedback pulses along the particle beam. 
JULIANA: We must have hit a pocket of magnesite ore. I'll try to adjust
the phaser harmonics to compensate. 
RIKER [OC]: Data, we're going to have to terminate the beam if this
keeps up. 
DATA: If we do, we will have to begin a new shaft at a suitable
location. 
JULIANA: There is no other suitable location. Just give me a few more
seconds. 
LAFORGE: Doctor, it's going to take longer than that to match the 
(the shaking stops) 
LAFORGE: You did it. 
JULIANA: It was just luck I hit the right frequency. All right, we're
less than two kilometres away from the target site. Stand by to
terminate the beam. 
LAFORGE: We've broken through. 
JULIANA: Now. 
DATA: I am detecting no signs of 
[Bridge]

DATA [OC]: Instability. 
PRAN: Commander, may I suggest we set up the infusion unit in the first
magma pocket and give this one a chance to cool. 
RIKER: Data 
[Engineering]

RIKER [OC]: Doctor Tainer, we'll meet you in
transporter room two. 
DATA: Acknowledged.

