RIKER LAFORGE JULIANA CRUSHER DATA PRAN

[Sickbay]

CRUSHER: Data, why do you want to look at Doctor
Tainer's medical records? Is something wrong with her? 
DATA: I was hoping you would be able to determine that from her
transporter trace pattern. 
CRUSHER: Well, probably I could, but ordinarily I don't check
somebody's medical status without a good reason. 
DATA: Doctor, I would ask that you not require me to be more specific.
I assure you, I have a good reason for asking. 
CRUSHER: All right, Data. At first glance I see nothing wrong with her.
Except for a mild case of hypertension, which is normal for a woman her
age. 
DATA: I see. 
CRUSHER: Maybe you should tell me what her symptoms are. 
DATA: She has not complained of any discomfort. 
CRUSHER: Then why do you want to see her medical records? 
DATA: Because I have reason to believe she is not who she claims to be.

RIKER [OC]: Bridge to Data. 
DATA: Go ahead, sir. 
RIKER [OC]: There's been a cave-in in one of the magma pockets. You're
needed in transporter room two. 
DATA: On my way. Excuse me, Doctor.

[Transporter room]

(Juliana and Data enter) 
JULIANA: What happened? 
(Pran is injured) 
PRAN: We were running a final check on the infusion units when a part
of the wall gave way. 
LAFORGE: It looks like the area has stabilised, but seismic stress is
building up. Eventually, the pocket will collapse. 
RIKER [OC]: How long, Geordi? 
LAFORGE: It's tough to tell, Commander. Twelve hours at most. 
JULIANA: Then we must finish configuring the unit and inject the plasma
immediately. 
[Bridge]

RIKER: I'd rather not send anyone back down there. 
JULIANA [OC]: If you don't do it 
[Transporter room]

JULIANA: Now, Commander, it may take months to find
another suitable site. The core may solidify by then. 
PRAN: She's right, we have to act now. 
RIKER [OC]: All right, but I want you in and out of there as quickly as
possible. 
DATA: Acknowledged. 
JULIANA: You're hurt. I'll go. 
[Magma pocket]

(Data is standing up the pattern enhancers and
scanning the area when a quake strikes) 
DATA: There will be more seismic activity. We must hurry. 
(Data and Juliana go along a passage to where the equipment is set up) 
DATA: The shaft has not been obstructed by the seismic activity. It
should be possible to trigger the unit from orbit. 
JULIANA: The infuser's been damaged. We're going to have to start the
programming sequence all over again. 
DATA: Priming the energy-transfer matrix. 
JULIANA: Re-initialising the particle stream buffer. 
RIKER [OC]: Riker to Data. Are you there? 
DATA: Go ahead, sir. 
RIKER [OC]: We're reading an increase in seismic stress levels. 
DATA: Understood, sir. We will attempt to expedite our work. 
JULIANA: There. Now we just have to re-align the diverter. 
(another quake rocks the chamber) 
RIKER [OC]: Data, are you all right? 
DATA: Yes, sir. We'll be returning to the beam-out point shortly. 
JULIANA: That's it. Let's go. 
(they go down the passage and discover everything has fallen down into
a pit) 
JULIANA: Can we transport without the pattern enhancers? 
DATA: No, we are too far below the surface. 
JULIANA: How are we going to get down there? 
DATA: There are no handholds in the rock face. We are going to have to
jump. 
JULIANA: No, it's too far! I won't make it! 
DATA: You will. 
(Data takes Juliana's arm and makes her jump with him. She lands badly,
is knocked out, and her arm has fallen off. It is artificial.)

[Sickbay]

(Geordi has got Juliana's forehead open) 
LAFORGE: Basically she's a Soong-type android, except everything about
her is designed to fool you into thinking she's human. 
CRUSHER: She's got tear ducts, sweat glands, even veins and capillaries
underneath her skin. 
RIKER: Why does the scanner read her as a human? 
CRUSHER: Because she has a feedback processor designed to send out a
false bio-signal. 
LAFORGE: It's part of her aging programme. Not only does she age in
appearance like Data, her vital signs change too. 
CRUSHER: What I can't figure out is why she lost consciousness. As far
as I can see, everything is fine. She should be awake. 
DATA: Check her positronic matrix. There may be a cascade anomaly. 
RIKER: You said you knew she was an android. How? 
DATA: The first indication occurred when we were digging. I saw her
perform complex calculations without the assistance of the computer. 
RIKER: That could have just meant she was good at math. 
DATA: That is true, but it was enough to get my attention. Later, I
noticed something odd about the way she blinked her eyes. The intervals
between blinks were governed by the Fourier system, the same
mathematical formula my father used to give my blinking pattern the
appearance of randomness. 
RIKER: Only you could have noticed something like that. 
DATA: Then there was the concert in Ten Forward. 
RIKER: What about it? 
DATA: We had practised the piece, and I noticed that she played it the
same way during the performance. Every pitch, every intonation, was
exactly the same. Only an artificial life form could have done that. 
RIKER: Does her husband know anything about this? 
DATA: I do not believe so. He is on the surface monitoring the plasma
infusion. 
RIKER: Probably just as well. 
LAFORGE: Data, come take a look at this. 
DATA: It appears to be an information module. With a holographic
interface.

