TROI LAFORGE PICARD JULIANA RIKER SOONG CRUSHER DATA PRAN

[Transporter room]

JULIANA: Now, Commander, it may take months to find
another suitable site. The core may solidify by then. 
PRAN: She's right, we have to act now. 
RIKER [OC]: All right, but I want you in and out of there as quickly as
possible. 
DATA: Acknowledged. 
JULIANA: You're hurt. I'll go. 
[Magma pocket]

(Data is standing up the pattern enhancers and
scanning the area when a quake strikes) 
DATA: There will be more seismic activity. We must hurry. 
(Data and Juliana go along a passage to where the equipment is set up) 
DATA: The shaft has not been obstructed by the seismic activity. It
should be possible to trigger the unit from orbit. 
JULIANA: The infuser's been damaged. We're going to have to start the
programming sequence all over again. 
DATA: Priming the energy-transfer matrix. 
JULIANA: Re-initialising the particle stream buffer. 
RIKER [OC]: Riker to Data. Are you there? 
DATA: Go ahead, sir. 
RIKER [OC]: We're reading an increase in seismic stress levels. 
DATA: Understood, sir. We will attempt to expedite our work. 
JULIANA: There. Now we just have to re-align the diverter. 
(another quake rocks the chamber) 
RIKER [OC]: Data, are you all right? 
DATA: Yes, sir. We'll be returning to the beam-out point shortly. 
JULIANA: That's it. Let's go. 
(they go down the passage and discover everything has fallen down into
a pit) 
JULIANA: Can we transport without the pattern enhancers? 
DATA: No, we are too far below the surface. 
JULIANA: How are we going to get down there? 
DATA: There are no handholds in the rock face. We are going to have to
jump. 
JULIANA: No, it's too far! I won't make it! 
DATA: You will. 
(Data takes Juliana's arm and makes her jump with him. She lands badly,
is knocked out, and her arm has fallen off. It is artificial.)

[Sickbay]

(Geordi has got Juliana's forehead open) 
LAFORGE: Basically she's a Soong-type android, except everything about
her is designed to fool you into thinking she's human. 
CRUSHER: She's got tear ducts, sweat glands, even veins and capillaries
underneath her skin. 
RIKER: Why does the scanner read her as a human? 
CRUSHER: Because she has a feedback processor designed to send out a
false bio-signal. 
LAFORGE: It's part of her aging programme. Not only does she age in
appearance like Data, her vital signs change too. 
CRUSHER: What I can't figure out is why she lost consciousness. As far
as I can see, everything is fine. She should be awake. 
DATA: Check her positronic matrix. There may be a cascade anomaly. 
RIKER: You said you knew she was an android. How? 
DATA: The first indication occurred when we were digging. I saw her
perform complex calculations without the assistance of the computer. 
RIKER: That could have just meant she was good at math. 
DATA: That is true, but it was enough to get my attention. Later, I
noticed something odd about the way she blinked her eyes. The intervals
between blinks were governed by the Fourier system, the same
mathematical formula my father used to give my blinking pattern the
appearance of randomness. 
RIKER: Only you could have noticed something like that. 
DATA: Then there was the concert in Ten Forward. 
RIKER: What about it? 
DATA: We had practised the piece, and I noticed that she played it the
same way during the performance. Every pitch, every intonation, was
exactly the same. Only an artificial life form could have done that. 
RIKER: Does her husband know anything about this? 
DATA: I do not believe so. He is on the surface monitoring the plasma
infusion. 
RIKER: Probably just as well. 
LAFORGE: Data, come take a look at this. 
DATA: It appears to be an information module. With a holographic
interface.

[Holodeck]

(Data puts Juliana's chip into a holder, then into
the holodeck arch panel) 
SOONG: Whoever you are, you must have found out about Juliana. 
DATA: That is correct. 
SOONG: I programmed this hologram to answer any questions you might
have. I am Noonian Soong. I created her. 
DATA: I am Data. 
SOONG: Data? I hoped somehow it might be you. I even created a response
programme to answer your questions. How are you, boy? 
DATA: I am fine. 
SOONG: I'm glad you got the chance to meet your mother. 
DATA: You refer to Doctor Tainer as my mother, yet the complexity of
her design indicates she was created after I was. 
SOONG: You're right. But there was a real Juliana O'Donnell. She was my
wife. She helped me create you. 
DATA: What happened to her? 
SOONG: She was injured when the Crystalline Entity attacked. We made it
as far as Terlina Three but, she slipped into a coma. When I realised
nothing could be done for her, I built an android. I tried to perfect
my synaptic scanning technique so that I could transfer Juliana's
memories into a positronic matrix. I didn't know if it would work, but
I had to try. I couldn't stand the thought of losing the only woman I
ever loved. A few days after Juliana died, I activated the android. She
looked up at me and smiled. She recognised me. It had worked! Here was
a life not two minutes old, and as far as she knew I was her husband.
She'd just recovered from a terrible injury. It was incredible. 
DATA: Then you never told her the truth? 
SOONG: Why? There was no reason for her to know. I wanted her to be
happy. I wanted us to be happy. We were. For a while. 
DATA: What happened? 
SOONG: I made a terrible mistake. I never really let her know how much
I loved her. So she left me. The real Juliana probably would have left
too, if she'd lived. 
DATA: If she recovers and learns that she is an android 
SOONG: She doesn't have to know. I designed her to shut down in the
event the truth was discovered. When you put that chip back in, she
will wake up and remember nothing. All you have to do is make up some
excuse about what happened to her. 
DATA: Then you do not believe she should know the truth? 
SOONG: Truth? The truth is, in every way that matters, she is Juliana
Soong. I programmed her to terminate after a long life. Let her live
out her days, and die believing she was human. Don't rob her of that,
son. Please.

[Observation lounge]

DATA: It seems that I must make a decision. Whether
to tell Doctor Tainer that she is an android or to withhold that
information from her. I do not know what to do. 
CRUSHER: Why was Doctor Soong so adamant that she not be told? 
DATA: He seemed certain that if she knew, it would preclude the
possibility of her being happy. 
PICARD: Data, what do you think? 
DATA: I am not certain. I understand why my father felt as he did, but
his wishes are not necessarily paramount. I am more concerned with what
would be best for her. 
CRUSHER: Wouldn't she be better off knowing the truth? Dealing with the
reality of her existence? 
TROI: I don't think so. She's believed she's human all her life. The
truth might be devastating to her. 
PICARD: Data, there might come some time in the future when she would
find out anyway. Another accident, perhaps. Maybe it would be easier
for her if she learned the truth from you. 
CRUSHER: I can tell you that if I were in her place, I would rather be
told by my son than by some stranger. 
DATA: I find I am having difficulty separating what would be best for
her from what would be best for me. 
TROI: What do you mean? 
DATA: If she knew she were an android, we would have something to
share. I would no longer be alone in the universe. 
TROI: I know how much that means to you, Data, but at the same time, by
telling her you're robbing her of the one thing you've wanted all your
life. To be human. 
PICARD: It's a difficult choice. You must do what you think best, Data.
But whatever decision you make, we will support it.

[Sickbay]

(Data puts the chip back in her head and covers it
over with her hair. She wakes.) 
JULIANA: Data? What happened? The last thing I remember is jumping off
a cliff. 
DATA: You were knocked unconscious by the fall. You broke a bone in
your arm, but Doctor Crusher repaired it. Everything is fine. 
Captain's log, supplemental. The infusion of plasma
into the core of Atrea Four has been accomplished. The core should
remain molten for several hundred years.

