PICARD JULIANA DATA LAFORGE PRAN

[Observation lounge]

JULIANA: Captain, our situation has worsened since
my husband and I first contacted you. The molten core of our planet is
not just cooling, it's begun to solidify. 
PRAN: Our gravitational field has been affected. Seismic activity has
increased by a factor of three. 
JULIANA: If the cooling continues at this rate Atrea will become
uninhabitable in thirteen months. 
LAFORGE: We could minimise seismic activity by creating isobaric
fissures and relieving some of the tectonic stress, but that would just
be a temporary fix. 
DATA: The only permanent solution would be to re-liquefy the core. 
LAFORGE: These pockets in the magma layer, how close are they to the
molten region of the core? 
JULIANA: A few kilometres, why? 
LAFORGE: Data, do you think that's close enough for ferro-plasmic
infusion? 
DATA: The procedure will involve using the ship's phasers to drill down
through the planet's surface into the pockets, where we would set up a
series of plasma infusion units. 
LAFORGE: We'll trigger the units by firing modulated energy bursts down
through the shafts. 
JULIANA: I see. Injecting sufficient plasma directly into the core
should trigger a chain reaction, and that will reliquify the magma. 
DATA: It should be possible to stabilise the core temperature at ninety
three percent of normal. 
PRAN: If it works, the core would remain molten for centuries. 
PICARD: If you give your permission, we could begin immediately. 
PRAN: Very well. But before we proceed, I'd like to update our
geological surveys. 
LAFORGE: Fine. I'd be very happy to help you with that, Doctor. 
PICARD: I've assigned you quarters during out time here. Please, make
yourselves comfortable. 
PRAN: Thank you, Captain. 
(Pran, Picard and La Forge leave)
JULIANA: Data? 
DATA: Yes, Doctor? 
JULIANA: Do you have any idea who I am? 
DATA: You are Doctor Juliana Tainer. 
JULIANA: You lost all your early memories. We thought you would, but we
couldn't be certain. 
DATA: Have we met before? 
JULIANA: Oh, Data, I was there, right at the beginning on Omicron
Theta. I helped create you. Now look at you. 
DATA: You were a colleague of Doctor Soong? 
JULIANA: Yes, I certainly was. And I was also his wife. In a way, I
suppose you could say I am your mother.

