DATA LAFORGE
lie juliana maybe chip didn logical looking curious apparently

[Engineering]

LAFORGE: Data, I'm almost finished reconfiguring
the phaser banks. We should be able to start drilling in about an hour.

DATA: Inform me when you are ready. 
LAFORGE: What is it you're doing over there? 
DATA: I am attempting to ascertain whether Doctor Tainer's story is
true. 
LAFORGE: Don't you believe her? 
DATA: I neither believe nor doubt. I am simply attempting to verify her
assertions. 
LAFORGE: Well, what have you turned up so far? 
DATA: The Registrar's Office on Mavala Four cannot confirm whether
Doctor Soong was married there. Apparently many of the documents were
lost when the government was overthrown. 
LAFORGE: What's that you're looking at? 
DATA: I am checking passenger manifests to see if they went to Mavala
during the period in question. O'Donnell, Juliana. Soong, Noonian. They
were both passengers on a transport which travelled from Omicron Theta
to Mavala and returned four days later. 
LAFORGE: That sure fits with her story. 
DATA: Still, the fact that they went to Mavala does not prove they were
married there. 
LAFORGE: You know, Data, it almost seems to me like you're trying to
prove that Doctor Tainer wasn't telling the truth. 
DATA: Not at all. I am merely unable to reconcile her story with the
fact that my father never mentioned her to me. 
LAFORGE: Well, she did leave him. Maybe she broke his heart. Maybe he
just didn't want to talk about her. Let me ask you this. Doctor Soong
created an emotion chip. Didn't Lore tell you that chip also contained
memories, memories Soong wanted you to have? 
DATA: Yes. It is possible that those are memories of my childhood. And
of Mrs Soong. 
LAFORGE: When you think about it, why would she want to lie? Why would
anybody want to pretend to be your mother? 
DATA: I can think of no motive for such a pretense. 
LAFORGE: And I can understand that this might all be a little
disconcerting for you, Data. It came out of the blue, and it doesn't
fit into your logical processors. 
DATA: That is true. 
LAFORGE: But that's life, Data. Part of being human is learning how to
deal with the unexpected. To risk new experiences even when they don't
fit into your preconceptions. 
DATA: I admit I am finding it difficult to accept the possibility of a
past about which I know nothing. But it is also true that I am curious
to learn more about it. 
