JULIANA DATA

[Ten Forward]

JULIANA: I still can't believe I'm seeing you like
this again, after all these years. 
DATA: Doctor, I have no memory of you. 
JULIANA: Oh, there's a reason for that. We wiped your processors after
we finished refining your programming. Why don't you tell me what you
do remember, and then I'll fill in the gaps. 
DATA: My memory record begins when I was activated by the Starfleet
officers on the Omicron Theta outpost. 
JULIANA: After the attack of the Crystalline Entity. 
DATA: Yes. All of the inhabitants of the colony were killed. However, I
discovered that my memory banks contained the contents of their
journals and logs. 
JULIANA: We hoped their experiences would be useful. After your
childhood, we figured you could use all the help you could get. 
DATA: My childhood? 
JULIANA: That's what I called it. You were like a baby, at first. A
hundred kilogram baby, but still. You had trouble learning your motor
skills, learning how to process sensory information. And of course
Noonian was never satisfied. He kept tinkering, trying to make you as
human as possible. 
DATA: So you wiped my memory processors after this childhood. 
JULIANA: Then we deactivated you and programmed you with the colonists'
logs. We had planned to reactivate you, but we never got the chance.
That's when the Crystalline Entity attacked. We had to leave quickly.
We wanted to take you with us, but there was only room for two in the
escape pod. 
DATA: Doctor, I have scanned the journals of the colonists. There is
only one Juliana mentioned in them. Her last name was O'Donnell. 
JULIANA: That's me. 
DATA: But there was no mention that my father was married to you. 
JULIANA: Because of my mother. She thought that Noonian was an
eccentric scientist who was too old for me. We decided to marry
secretly to give her a chance to get used to our being together. We
slipped away to Mavala Four and got married there. A Klingon and a
Corvallan trader were our witnesses. It wasn't exactly the wedding I'd
hoped for. Somehow Noonian had a way of making even the oddest things
seem romantic. 
DATA: My father did have an unusual way of looking at things. 
JULIANA: How would you know that? 
DATA: I encountered him once in the Terlina system. 
JULIANA: That's where we went to after we left the outpost. I had no
idea that you'd even met him. 
DATA: It was shortly before his death. 
JULIANA: He's dead? 
DATA: Yes. 
JULIANA: I had no idea it would hit me this hard. We didn't exactly
part on the best of terms. 
DATA: What do you mean? 
JULIANA: I realised he loved his work as much as he loved me. Maybe
more. There we were, stuck on this planet in the middle of the jungle
with no one else to talk to. No life. It just wasn't enough. That's why
I left. That was all a very, very long time ago. The important thing is
that we're here now together. And I do want to get to know you. 
DATA: This has been an interesting encounter, and an altogether
unexpected one. I would like to corroborate your story before we
proceed further. Excuse me, Doctor.

