GATES TROI WORF PICARD RIKER HAYES COMPUTER OGAWA DATA

[Bridge]

(blink and they are at red alert with a Cardassian
ship bearing down on them) 
PICARD: Now, Mister Worf! Now! 
RIKER: What are you waiting for? Raise the shields. 
(the tactical station has a raised box behind the Captain's chair) 
WORF: This panel configuration has been altered. I do not know how 
(Boom) 
DATA: Direct hit. Engineering Section and deck forty two. Shield
generators are overloading. 
(Boom) 
PICARD: Number One. 
RIKER: (taking over tactical) Firing photon torpedoes. Full spread. 
RIKER: Direct hit on their main reactor. They're returning fire. 
(Boom) 
DATA: Captain, we have sustained heavy damage to the deflector systems.
Hull breaches on decks seventeen and thirty six. 
PICARD: Ensign, take us out of here, maximum warp. 
GATES: Aye, sir. 
PICARD: Are they pursuing us? 
RIKER: No, sir. They are firing on the Argus Array. They destroyed it,
sir. 
PICARD: Bridge to Engineering. Mister La Forge, what's your status? 
HAYES [OC]: This is Ensign Hayes, sir. Commander La Forge has been
taken to Sickbay with plasma burns. There's serious damage to the
secondary plasma conduit but I think we've got it under control. 
PICARD: Acknowledged. Ensign, lay in a course to Starbase one two nine.

GATES: Aye, sir. 
PICARD: What happened back there, Lieutenant? 
WORF: I believe I experienced another memory loss. 
RIKER: Memory loss? What are you talking about? 
WORF: I do not feel well. Request to be temporarily relieved of duty,
sir. 
PICARD: Granted.

[Worf's quarters]

(Worf locks the door behind him. The battleship
painting is back by the door and the trophy is now a vase of flowers) 
WORF: Computer, access personal logs on Shuttlecraft Curie. Play log
entry for stardate 47391.2. 
COMPUTER: There is no log entry from the Shuttlecraft Curie for that
stardate. 
WORF: Computer, display any log entries regarding the Bat'leth
tournament on Forcas Three. 
WORF [on monitor]: Personal log, stardate 47391.2. There has been a
malfunction in the ship's main deflector. It will require two more days
of repairs. As a result, I will not be able to compete in the Bat'leth
tournament on Forcas Three. I have asked my brother to take my place.
He does not have my prowess with the blade, but 
(doorbell) 
TROI: Why'd you lock the door? 
WORF: Why shouldn't I? 
TROI: I heard what happened on the Bridge. Are you all right? 
WORF: I am not sure. 
TROI: Do you want to talk about it? 
WORF: I would rather not, Counsellor. 
TROI: Very well, Lieutenant. Hot chocolate. 
WORF: Is there something I can do for you? 
TROI: Actually, there is. 
(she goes and sits on the bed) 
TROI: Come and sit down. I just want you to relax for a minute. (she
unties his ponytail) There. (she massages his shoulders) You are so
tense. Now, I know you don't want to talk about what happened on the
Bridge, but there are times when it's just best to let things out. Come
on. If you can't talk to me, who can you talk to? 
(Troi nuzzles his neck, and he leaps away) 
WORF: I do not believe this is appropriate behaviour! 
TROI: Even for your wife? 
WORF: Wife? 
TROI: Worf, what's wrong? 
WORF: I do not know. Things are changing. 
TROI: What's changed? 
WORF: I do not remember us, you and I, being mates. It is as if events,
circumstances, continue to change from moment to moment, but I am the
only one who seems to be aware of it. 
TROI: Are you saying you don't remember the last three years? You don't
remember us falling in love and getting married? 
WORF: I do remember the last three years, but they were different. We
did not have this relationship. We were friends. And the Enterprise did
not have a battle with the Cardassians. And no one believes me. 
TROI: Whatever's wrong, whatever happened, I want you to know that I
believe you. And that I love you. And together we'll find out what's
happening. 
[Engineering]

DATA: I am initiating a subspace scan to search for
temporal anomalies on or off the ship. 
OGAWA [OC]: Counsellor Troi, please report to Sickbay. 
TROI: I'm on my way. Let me know if you find anything. 
WORF: Commander, how long have I been married to Counsellor Troi? 
DATA: (with blue eyes) Two years, one month and twelve days. 
WORF: And when did this relationship begin? 
DATA: It is my understanding your romantic affiliation began shortly
after you recovered from your spinal injury on stardate 45587. It was
six months later that you asked Commander Riker for his formal
permission to court Counsellor Troi. You felt to do otherwise would be
dishonourable. 
WORF: And then we mated? 
DATA: I am not privy to the exact details of when, where or how your
first coupling took place. I could investigate it 
WORF: No, that is all right. 
DATA: I am detecting no temporal anomalies in this system. Perhaps we
should try to pinpoint the exact moment when events became
discontinuous. Do you remember the first change? 
WORF: I was in Sickbay. Doctor Crusher told me I had a concussion but I
do not remember that happening. 
DATA: Think back. Are you sure that was the very first change? 
WORF: Before. Yes. Yes, I was in Engineering. I felt a wave of
dizziness and when I looked up, you and Commander La Forge were on the
opposite side of the room. Captain Picard was gone. I thought I had
blacked out for a moment and had not observed your movements. And at my
birthday party, the cake was chocolate and then it was yellow. And
Commander Riker told me Captain Picard was not going to attend, and
then suddenly he was there. 
DATA: We should try to find the commonalties in these events. Where
were the people you were with? 
WORF: Everyone was at my birthday party. Then I was with Counsellor
Troi, then Commander La Forge came in. Geordi. Geordi was present at
all three locations. And he was near me in each case just before I
noticed the differences. There has to be a connection. 
DATA: It is possible. We should speak to Commander La Forge.

