TROI WORF PICARD RIKER WESLEY DATA

[Worf's quarters]

(the impressionist painting is back in place) 
TROI: Worf. From what I understand, there's a good chance my Worf won't
return. I guess it's just hard for me to accept that there's a reality
out there where you never loved me. 
WORF: Deanna, I have always considered you a close friend. And although
I have never seriously considered a romantic relationship, I would not
be opposed to the possibility. 
TROI: What about our children? 
WORF: Children? 
TROI: You didn't know? 
WORF: When the last shift occurred in Sickbay, we did not have any
children. 
TROI: We have a little girl, Shannara, she's two years old, and a three
year old boy, Eric Christopher. 
WORF: What about Alexander? 
TROI: Alexander? 
WORF: He was my son in another reality.

[Bridge]

WESLEY: I've used a differential pulse to analyze
over ten million quantum states within the fissure, but I still haven't
found one with your signature. This may take some time, sir. 
DATA: Captain, a Bajoran ship is approaching. 
RIKER: Red Alert. 
WORF: Sir, the Bajorans? 
TROI: Ever since the Bajorans overpowered the Cardassian Empire,
they've become more and more aggressive. 
RIKER: Yesterday they destroyed one of our subspace telescopes because
they thought we were using it to spy on them. 
WESLEY: They're charging their weapons, sir. 
WORF: Shields! 
RIKER: Return fire. 
WESLEY: They've damaged our power systems, sir. It's caused an energy
surge within the subspace pulse. The quantum fissure is beginning to
destabilise. 
RIKER: Can we disengage the pulse? 
WESLEY: Too late, sir. 
(the fissure goes rainbow, then more Enterprises pop into this
existence) 
RIKER: What the hell is happening? 
DATA: The barriers between quantum realties are breaking down. Other
realties are emerging into our own. 
('and thick and fast they came at last, and more, and more,
and more') 
WESLEY: The Bajoran ship is disengaging, sir. 
DATA: The rate of quantum incursions is increasing exponentially. At
this rate, the sector will be completely filled with Enterprises within
three days. 
WESLEY: Captain, we're receiving two hundred eighty five thousand
hails. 
RIKER: I wish I knew what to tell them. Mister Data, can we stop these
incursions? 
DATA: Perhaps, if we can find the ship which that Commander Worf's
quantum signature. 
RIKER: How would that help? 
DATA: It was Worf's shuttlecraft which traversed the fissure and
weakened the barriers between quantum realities. If he re-enters the
fissure in his original shuttle, and emits a broad spectrum warp field,
it may be enough to seal the fissure and stop additional realities from
emerging into our own. 
RIKER: What then? How do we get the Enterprises that are already here
back to where they belong? 
DATA: In theory, the act of sealing the fissure should restore the
barriers between quantum states. The ships would return to their own
realities. 
RIKER: Lieutenant Crusher, send a general hail, all ships. 
WESLEY: Aye, sir. 
RIKER: This is Captain Riker of the Enterprise. That is, the Enterprise
which is indigenous to this universe. We've all encountered a quantum
anomaly. We think we have found a way to return all of us to our proper
realities, but we need to find that ship which exhibits a certain
quantum signature. Our Mister Data will transmit that signature to you
now. 
(a not too brief pause) 
RIKER: Anything? 
WESLEY: There's too much comm. traffic, sir. It's tough to isolate
who's talking to who. Wait a minute. Here it is. Someone's responding. 
RIKER: On screen. 
PICARD [on viewscreen]: Captain, it would that we have found the
quantum signature you are looking for. 
RIKER: Data believes that by sending Worf back through the fissure
again, it would return us all to our proper realities. 
PICARD [on viewscreen]: Our Data has said the same thing. 
RIKER: We need you to send us your shuttlecraft Curie. 
PICARD [on viewscreen]: We're launching it now. 
RIKER: Thank you. It's good to see you again, Captain. It's been a long
time. 
(viewscreen Picard looks at his Riker, and Worf) 
[Shuttlebay]

RIKER: Did they send the right shuttle? 
DATA: Yes, sir. It matches Commander Worf's quantum signature
precisely. I have remodulated the shuttle's engines to emit an inverse
warp field. You will need to activate the field at the precise moment
you enter the fissure. 
WORF: Assuming it works, will I find myself near my own ship? 
DATA: That is one possibility. However, the uncertainty principle
dictates that time is a variable in this equation. You may end up
several days before the event or several days after. There is no way to
tell. 
WORF: I understand. 
RIKER: Good luck. 
(Data and Riker leave.Worf and Deanna embrace, then kiss) 
