TROI LAFORGE WORF DATA [OC] PICARD RIKER DATA
sister suggest ships analysis willing location covert subspace yes

[Bridge]

(they've arrived at the array) 
PICARD: Report. 
DATA: The Array appears to be functioning normally, sir. 
RIKER: That can't be right. We were told the Array stopped relaying
data six days ago. 
DATA: The Array is still transmitting data, sir, but it is no longer
sending that information to the Federation. It appears someone has
redirected its imaging systems. 
PICARD: Where is the information being sent now? 
DATA: Sector one nine six five eight, sir. I am unable to access it's
main computer, so it is impossible to determine the exact location. 
RIKER: What's in that sector? 
WORF: It is uninhabited. But there could be a ship or a subspace relay
station receiving the data. 
RIKER: Captain. I suggest we beam a repair crew aboard the Array. We
can begin downloading their imaging logs, find out what the Array's
been observing for the past six days. 
PICARD: Make it so. 
RIKER: Mister Data? 
[Ten Forward]

WORF: Excuse me, Counsellor. Do you have a moment? 
TROI: Of course. 
WORF: I have been meaning to speak with you about Alexander. 
TROI: Oh? 
WORF: It has never been easy for me having Alexander on board. I have
always tried to be a good father, to give him guidance, but he seems to
have his own mind about some things. 
TROI: Most children do. 
WORF: I could not have come this far without your help. Alexander looks
up to you. At times, I have felt that you are like a mother to him. 
TROI: Worf, that's one of the nicest things anyone's ever said to me. 
WORF: One time when I thought I was going to die, I asked you to watch
over Alexander. I was wondering if you might consider formalising that
arrangement. I want you to be Alexander's Soh-chIm. 
TROI: His Soh-chIm? 
WORF: You would become his surrogate mother. In case anything ever
happened to me, you would be responsible for him. 
TROI: I don't know what to say. It's a great honour. So, that would
make me your? 
WORF: The closest analogy is step-sister. 
TROI: That would make my mother your step-mother. 
WORF: I had not considered that. It is a risk I am willing to take. 
TROI: I accept. 
DATA [OC]: Lieutenant Worf, please report to Engineering. 
WORF: I am on my way.

[Engineering]

DATA: We have analysed the imaging logs. It appears
the Array was reprogrammed to observe several Federation sites. 
LAFORGE: This is Deep Space Five. Starbase Forty seven. The Iadara
Colony and the Utopia Planitia Shipyards. 
PICARD: They're responsible for new starship development. 
WORF: Someone is using the Array for covert surveillance of the
Federation. 
DATA: That is our theory. We believe unauthorised access was made six
days ago. The imaging logs from that day show a ship approaching the
Array. 
WORF: That's a Cardassian ship. Galor Class. 
LAFORGE: We're only three light years from Cardassian space. They would
have easy access to the Array. 
PICARD: Mister Worf, start a long range scan of the region. See if
there are any Cardassian ships nearby. 
WORF: Aye sir. 
LAFORGE: Worf, here's a propulsion analysis of the Cardassian ship. You
might try scanning for its energy configuration. 
(Worf has a dizzy moment and Data supports him) 
DATA: Lieutenant, are you all right? 
WORF: I feel dizzy. 
(it's now Geordi supporting the swaying Worf. Picard is missing) 
LAFORGE: Worf, you don't look so good. Maybe you ought to go to
Sickbay. 
WORF: Yes. Yes, perhaps I will.

