GATES TROI LAFORGE WORF PICARD RIKER HAYES COMPUTER DATA

[Worf's quarters]

WORF: Doctor Crusher says I am experiencing further
memory loss, but my instincts tell me it is more than that. I remember
those imaging logs. I could tell you every detail, every word. 
TROI: (in a fetching off the shoulder blue number) Worf, let's assume
for a second you're right, that things did happen as you remember them.
Are you saying that everyone's memory on this ship has been altered but
yours? 
(doorbell) 
WORF: Enter. 
LAFORGE: Counsellor. Worf, I wanted you to know that we re-examined the
imaging logs. They don't show a Cardassian ship or any evidence that
the Array was reprogrammed. From what we can tell, the Array suffered a
simple mechanical failure. 
WORF: That is not right. I was certain that 
(Worf has a dizzy spell, and Data's painting moves walls) 
TROI: What's wrong? 
WORF: Counsellor, the painting that Commander Data gave me. It has
moved. 
TROI: Worf, I hung that painting there. At your birthday party,
remember? 
WORF: No. 
(the painting is now a battlecruiser) 
WORF: The painting has changed. Don't you see it? 
(Troi is now in uniform) 
WORF: Your hair and your clothing, they have changed as well. 
LAFORGE: Worf, maybe you should come with me to Sickbay and

[Bridge]

(blink and they are at red alert with a Cardassian
ship bearing down on them) 
PICARD: Now, Mister Worf! Now! 
RIKER: What are you waiting for? Raise the shields. 
(the tactical station has a raised box behind the Captain's chair) 
WORF: This panel configuration has been altered. I do not know how 
(Boom) 
DATA: Direct hit. Engineering Section and deck forty two. Shield
generators are overloading. 
(Boom) 
PICARD: Number One. 
RIKER: (taking over tactical) Firing photon torpedoes. Full spread. 
RIKER: Direct hit on their main reactor. They're returning fire. 
(Boom) 
DATA: Captain, we have sustained heavy damage to the deflector systems.
Hull breaches on decks seventeen and thirty six. 
PICARD: Ensign, take us out of here, maximum warp. 
GATES: Aye, sir. 
PICARD: Are they pursuing us? 
RIKER: No, sir. They are firing on the Argus Array. They destroyed it,
sir. 
PICARD: Bridge to Engineering. Mister La Forge, what's your status? 
HAYES [OC]: This is Ensign Hayes, sir. Commander La Forge has been
taken to Sickbay with plasma burns. There's serious damage to the
secondary plasma conduit but I think we've got it under control. 
PICARD: Acknowledged. Ensign, lay in a course to Starbase one two nine.

GATES: Aye, sir. 
PICARD: What happened back there, Lieutenant? 
WORF: I believe I experienced another memory loss. 
RIKER: Memory loss? What are you talking about? 
WORF: I do not feel well. Request to be temporarily relieved of duty,
sir. 
PICARD: Granted.

[Worf's quarters]

(Worf locks the door behind him. The battleship
painting is back by the door and the trophy is now a vase of flowers) 
WORF: Computer, access personal logs on Shuttlecraft Curie. Play log
entry for stardate 47391.2. 
COMPUTER: There is no log entry from the Shuttlecraft Curie for that
stardate. 
WORF: Computer, display any log entries regarding the Bat'leth
tournament on Forcas Three. 
WORF [on monitor]: Personal log, stardate 47391.2. There has been a
malfunction in the ship's main deflector. It will require two more days
of repairs. As a result, I will not be able to compete in the Bat'leth
tournament on Forcas Three. I have asked my brother to take my place.
He does not have my prowess with the blade, but 
(doorbell) 
TROI: Why'd you lock the door? 
WORF: Why shouldn't I? 
TROI: I heard what happened on the Bridge. Are you all right? 
WORF: I am not sure. 
TROI: Do you want to talk about it? 
WORF: I would rather not, Counsellor. 
TROI: Very well, Lieutenant. Hot chocolate. 
WORF: Is there something I can do for you? 
TROI: Actually, there is. 
(she goes and sits on the bed) 
TROI: Come and sit down. I just want you to relax for a minute. (she
unties his ponytail) There. (she massages his shoulders) You are so
tense. Now, I know you don't want to talk about what happened on the
Bridge, but there are times when it's just best to let things out. Come
on. If you can't talk to me, who can you talk to? 
(Troi nuzzles his neck, and he leaps away) 
WORF: I do not believe this is appropriate behaviour! 
TROI: Even for your wife? 
WORF: Wife? 
TROI: Worf, what's wrong? 
WORF: I do not know. Things are changing. 
TROI: What's changed? 
WORF: I do not remember us, you and I, being mates. It is as if events,
circumstances, continue to change from moment to moment, but I am the
only one who seems to be aware of it. 
TROI: Are you saying you don't remember the last three years? You don't
remember us falling in love and getting married? 
WORF: I do remember the last three years, but they were different. We
did not have this relationship. We were friends. And the Enterprise did
not have a battle with the Cardassians. And no one believes me. 
TROI: Whatever's wrong, whatever happened, I want you to know that I
believe you. And that I love you. And together we'll find out what's
happening. 
