RIKER WORF TROI WESLEY HELM CRUSHER DATA
disturbance old triggered considered caused accept outcomes tactical glow

[Bridge]

(Wesley's back and at Tactical, and there are
architecture differences) 
WESLEY: Captain, I'm picking up a minor subspace disturbance off the
port bow. 
RIKER: Full stop. 
HELM: (a Cardassian) Aye, sir. 
RIKER: Analysis, Mister Data. 
DATA: It appears to be a quantum fissure in the space-time continuum. 
RIKER: On screen. 
DATA: The anomaly cannot be seen, but I believe I can enhance it with a
warp field to make it visible. 
(a blue glow appears) 
RIKER: Is it dangerous? 
DATA: Not from this distance, sir. I am also detecting an ion trail
intersecting the phenomenon. I believe it was left by a Starfleet type
six shuttlecraft. 
WORF: So I was here. 
DATA: I have an explanation, sir.

[Observation lounge]

DATA: I believe the quantum fissure we discovered
is a fixed point across the space time continuum. A keyhole which
intersects many other quantum realities. 
TROI: What do you mean, quantum realities? 
DATA: For any event, there is an infinite number of possible outcomes.
Our choices determine which outcomes will follow. But there is a theory
in quantum physics that all possibilities that can happen, do happen in
alternate quantum realities. 
WORF: And somehow I have been shifting from one reality to another. 
DATA: That is correct. 
TROI: How did this happen? 
DATA: When Worf's shuttlecraft came into contact with the quantum
fissure, I believe its warp engines caused a small break in the
barriers between quantum realties. Worf was thrown into a state of
quantum flux. He immediately shifted into other realities. 
CRUSHER: And Geordi's visor somehow triggered that effect? 
DATA: Exactly. The visor uses a subspace field pulse. I believe that
whenever Geordi came near Worf, the field pulse intensified the quantum
flux and pushed Worf into another reality. 
WORF: How can we find my original quantum state and return me to it? 
WESLEY: We could scan the quantum fissure using a subspace differential
pulse. Maybe we could locate the quantum state that shares Worf's
signature and find a way to get him back. 
DATA: An excellent idea, Lieutenant. 
[Worf's quarters]

(the impressionist painting is back in place) 
TROI: Worf. From what I understand, there's a good chance my Worf won't
return. I guess it's just hard for me to accept that there's a reality
out there where you never loved me. 
WORF: Deanna, I have always considered you a close friend. And although
I have never seriously considered a romantic relationship, I would not
be opposed to the possibility. 
TROI: What about our children? 
WORF: Children? 
TROI: You didn't know? 
WORF: When the last shift occurred in Sickbay, we did not have any
children. 
TROI: We have a little girl, Shannara, she's two years old, and a three
year old boy, Eric Christopher. 
WORF: What about Alexander? 
TROI: Alexander? 
WORF: He was my son in another reality.

