TROI WORF RIKER OGAWA [OC] OGAWA CRUSHER DATA
saying return returned normal aye subspace attending officer speak

[Engineering]

DATA: I am initiating a subspace scan to search for
temporal anomalies on or off the ship. 
OGAWA [OC]: Counsellor Troi, please report to Sickbay. 
TROI: I'm on my way. Let me know if you find anything. 
WORF: Commander, how long have I been married to Counsellor Troi? 
DATA: (with blue eyes) Two years, one month and twelve days. 
WORF: And when did this relationship begin? 
DATA: It is my understanding your romantic affiliation began shortly
after you recovered from your spinal injury on stardate 45587. It was
six months later that you asked Commander Riker for his formal
permission to court Counsellor Troi. You felt to do otherwise would be
dishonourable. 
WORF: And then we mated? 
DATA: I am not privy to the exact details of when, where or how your
first coupling took place. I could investigate it 
WORF: No, that is all right. 
DATA: I am detecting no temporal anomalies in this system. Perhaps we
should try to pinpoint the exact moment when events became
discontinuous. Do you remember the first change? 
WORF: I was in Sickbay. Doctor Crusher told me I had a concussion but I
do not remember that happening. 
DATA: Think back. Are you sure that was the very first change? 
WORF: Before. Yes. Yes, I was in Engineering. I felt a wave of
dizziness and when I looked up, you and Commander La Forge were on the
opposite side of the room. Captain Picard was gone. I thought I had
blacked out for a moment and had not observed your movements. And at my
birthday party, the cake was chocolate and then it was yellow. And
Commander Riker told me Captain Picard was not going to attend, and
then suddenly he was there. 
DATA: We should try to find the commonalties in these events. Where
were the people you were with? 
WORF: Everyone was at my birthday party. Then I was with Counsellor
Troi, then Commander La Forge came in. Geordi. Geordi was present at
all three locations. And he was near me in each case just before I
noticed the differences. There has to be a connection. 
DATA: It is possible. We should speak to Commander La Forge.

[Sickbay]

DATA: Doctor, is Geordi well enough to answer some
questions? 
OGAWA: (the Doctor) Geordi's dead. 
DATA: There do not appear to be any unusual readings. Energy residuals
from the plasma burns, the beginnings of cellular decomposition. I see
nothing that connects these bio-readings to your recent sense of
discontinuity. 
OGAWA: What about his visor? 
DATA: I still see nothing unusual. Perhaps we should activate it. 
OGAWA: Hook it up to the diagnostic array and I'll check it out. 
DATA: The visor is active. 
(Worf is in red, with three pips and a future comm. badge. He sways.) 
CRUSHER: Worf, are you alright? 
DATA: (yellow eyes) Have you noticed another discontinuity? 
WORF: Doctor Crusher was not here. Doctor Ogawa was. 
CRUSHER: Doctor Ogawa? 
WORF: My uniform has changed. What is my rank and position? 
TROI: You're a Commander and First Officer. 
WORF: Are we still married? 
TROI: Yes. 
DATA: I am detecting a quantum flux in your cellular RNA. 
WORF: What does that mean? 
DATA: I do not know. I will have to analyse these readings. 
[Ready room]

(Riker is Captain) 
DATA: I have found the quantum flux in Worf's cellular RNA extends to
the subatomic level. It is asynchronous with normal matter. In essence,
Captain, Mister Worf does not belong in our universe. 
RIKER: What? 
DATA: All matter in the universe resonates on a quantum level with a
unique signature. That signature is constant. It cannot be changed
through any known process. It is the basic foundation of existence. 
RIKER: Are you saying that Worf's quantum signature is different from
ours? 
DATA: Yes, sir. I cannot explain it. It is as if he originates from a
different quantum universe. 
RIKER: Mister Worf, you say the discontinuities started to occur after
you returned from a Bat'leth tournament on Forcas Three. 
WORF: Yes, sir. 
RIKER: Now, I know for a fact that you never attended that tournament
and that no shuttlecraft has left the Enterprise for over a month. 
WORF: I understand that, but I also clearly remember attending the
tournament and returning to the ship in a shuttlecraft. 
RIKER: Do you remember the route you took to return? 
WORF: Yes. 
RIKER: Let's backtrack that course. See if there are any unusual
readings or anomalies. 
DATA: Aye, sir. 
(Data leaves) 
WORF: If I may inquire, sir, how long have you been Captain of the
Enterprise? 
RIKER: Four years. Ever since Captain Picard was killed in the incident
with the Borg. You don't remember any of this, do you? 
WORF: I do remember. I just remember differently.

