TROI WORF RIKER WESLEY HELM OGAWA CRUSHER DATA
beginnings backtrack dangerous connects uniform wesley active bow clearly

[Sickbay]

DATA: Doctor, is Geordi well enough to answer some
questions? 
OGAWA: (the Doctor) Geordi's dead. 
DATA: There do not appear to be any unusual readings. Energy residuals
from the plasma burns, the beginnings of cellular decomposition. I see
nothing that connects these bio-readings to your recent sense of
discontinuity. 
OGAWA: What about his visor? 
DATA: I still see nothing unusual. Perhaps we should activate it. 
OGAWA: Hook it up to the diagnostic array and I'll check it out. 
DATA: The visor is active. 
(Worf is in red, with three pips and a future comm. badge. He sways.) 
CRUSHER: Worf, are you alright? 
DATA: (yellow eyes) Have you noticed another discontinuity? 
WORF: Doctor Crusher was not here. Doctor Ogawa was. 
CRUSHER: Doctor Ogawa? 
WORF: My uniform has changed. What is my rank and position? 
TROI: You're a Commander and First Officer. 
WORF: Are we still married? 
TROI: Yes. 
DATA: I am detecting a quantum flux in your cellular RNA. 
WORF: What does that mean? 
DATA: I do not know. I will have to analyse these readings. 
[Ready room]

(Riker is Captain) 
DATA: I have found the quantum flux in Worf's cellular RNA extends to
the subatomic level. It is asynchronous with normal matter. In essence,
Captain, Mister Worf does not belong in our universe. 
RIKER: What? 
DATA: All matter in the universe resonates on a quantum level with a
unique signature. That signature is constant. It cannot be changed
through any known process. It is the basic foundation of existence. 
RIKER: Are you saying that Worf's quantum signature is different from
ours? 
DATA: Yes, sir. I cannot explain it. It is as if he originates from a
different quantum universe. 
RIKER: Mister Worf, you say the discontinuities started to occur after
you returned from a Bat'leth tournament on Forcas Three. 
WORF: Yes, sir. 
RIKER: Now, I know for a fact that you never attended that tournament
and that no shuttlecraft has left the Enterprise for over a month. 
WORF: I understand that, but I also clearly remember attending the
tournament and returning to the ship in a shuttlecraft. 
RIKER: Do you remember the route you took to return? 
WORF: Yes. 
RIKER: Let's backtrack that course. See if there are any unusual
readings or anomalies. 
DATA: Aye, sir. 
(Data leaves) 
WORF: If I may inquire, sir, how long have you been Captain of the
Enterprise? 
RIKER: Four years. Ever since Captain Picard was killed in the incident
with the Borg. You don't remember any of this, do you? 
WORF: I do remember. I just remember differently.

[Bridge]

(Wesley's back and at Tactical, and there are
architecture differences) 
WESLEY: Captain, I'm picking up a minor subspace disturbance off the
port bow. 
RIKER: Full stop. 
HELM: (a Cardassian) Aye, sir. 
RIKER: Analysis, Mister Data. 
DATA: It appears to be a quantum fissure in the space-time continuum. 
RIKER: On screen. 
DATA: The anomaly cannot be seen, but I believe I can enhance it with a
warp field to make it visible. 
(a blue glow appears) 
RIKER: Is it dangerous? 
DATA: Not from this distance, sir. I am also detecting an ion trail
intersecting the phenomenon. I believe it was left by a Starfleet type
six shuttlecraft. 
WORF: So I was here. 
DATA: I have an explanation, sir.

