TROI LAFORGE WORF PICARD CRUSHER DATA

[Ten Forward]

WORF: Excuse me, Counsellor. Do you have a moment? 
TROI: Of course. 
WORF: I have been meaning to speak with you about Alexander. 
TROI: Oh? 
WORF: It has never been easy for me having Alexander on board. I have
always tried to be a good father, to give him guidance, but he seems to
have his own mind about some things. 
TROI: Most children do. 
WORF: I could not have come this far without your help. Alexander looks
up to you. At times, I have felt that you are like a mother to him. 
TROI: Worf, that's one of the nicest things anyone's ever said to me. 
WORF: One time when I thought I was going to die, I asked you to watch
over Alexander. I was wondering if you might consider formalising that
arrangement. I want you to be Alexander's Soh-chIm. 
TROI: His Soh-chIm? 
WORF: You would become his surrogate mother. In case anything ever
happened to me, you would be responsible for him. 
TROI: I don't know what to say. It's a great honour. So, that would
make me your? 
WORF: The closest analogy is step-sister. 
TROI: That would make my mother your step-mother. 
WORF: I had not considered that. It is a risk I am willing to take. 
TROI: I accept. 
DATA [OC]: Lieutenant Worf, please report to Engineering. 
WORF: I am on my way.

[Engineering]

DATA: We have analysed the imaging logs. It appears
the Array was reprogrammed to observe several Federation sites. 
LAFORGE: This is Deep Space Five. Starbase Forty seven. The Iadara
Colony and the Utopia Planitia Shipyards. 
PICARD: They're responsible for new starship development. 
WORF: Someone is using the Array for covert surveillance of the
Federation. 
DATA: That is our theory. We believe unauthorised access was made six
days ago. The imaging logs from that day show a ship approaching the
Array. 
WORF: That's a Cardassian ship. Galor Class. 
LAFORGE: We're only three light years from Cardassian space. They would
have easy access to the Array. 
PICARD: Mister Worf, start a long range scan of the region. See if
there are any Cardassian ships nearby. 
WORF: Aye sir. 
LAFORGE: Worf, here's a propulsion analysis of the Cardassian ship. You
might try scanning for its energy configuration. 
(Worf has a dizzy moment and Data supports him) 
DATA: Lieutenant, are you all right? 
WORF: I feel dizzy. 
(it's now Geordi supporting the swaying Worf. Picard is missing) 
LAFORGE: Worf, you don't look so good. Maybe you ought to go to
Sickbay. 
WORF: Yes. Yes, perhaps I will.

[Sickbay]

CRUSHER: Any nausea or blurred vision? 
WORF: No. However, I did experience some dizziness earlier today at my
birthday celebration. 
CRUSHER: Sounds like you're having some of the side effects from the
concussion. I can give you some vertazine for the dizziness but I'd
like you to rest. 
WORF: Doctor, perhaps you are thinking of another patient. I have no
concussion. 
CRUSHER: Worf, you came in here this morning complaining of ringing in
your ears. I scanned you. You had a concussion. You don't remember any
of this? 
WORF: No. 
CRUSHER: Temporary memory loss is common for this kind of injury. Do
you remember telling me about the Bat'leth tournament? You said that
one of the competitors hit you over the head. That's why you lost the
match. 
WORF: I won that tournament. And I can prove it to you.

