RIKER WORF TROI WESLEY HELM CRUSHER DATA

[Ready room]

(Riker is Captain) 
DATA: I have found the quantum flux in Worf's cellular RNA extends to
the subatomic level. It is asynchronous with normal matter. In essence,
Captain, Mister Worf does not belong in our universe. 
RIKER: What? 
DATA: All matter in the universe resonates on a quantum level with a
unique signature. That signature is constant. It cannot be changed
through any known process. It is the basic foundation of existence. 
RIKER: Are you saying that Worf's quantum signature is different from
ours? 
DATA: Yes, sir. I cannot explain it. It is as if he originates from a
different quantum universe. 
RIKER: Mister Worf, you say the discontinuities started to occur after
you returned from a Bat'leth tournament on Forcas Three. 
WORF: Yes, sir. 
RIKER: Now, I know for a fact that you never attended that tournament
and that no shuttlecraft has left the Enterprise for over a month. 
WORF: I understand that, but I also clearly remember attending the
tournament and returning to the ship in a shuttlecraft. 
RIKER: Do you remember the route you took to return? 
WORF: Yes. 
RIKER: Let's backtrack that course. See if there are any unusual
readings or anomalies. 
DATA: Aye, sir. 
(Data leaves) 
WORF: If I may inquire, sir, how long have you been Captain of the
Enterprise? 
RIKER: Four years. Ever since Captain Picard was killed in the incident
with the Borg. You don't remember any of this, do you? 
WORF: I do remember. I just remember differently.

[Bridge]

(Wesley's back and at Tactical, and there are
architecture differences) 
WESLEY: Captain, I'm picking up a minor subspace disturbance off the
port bow. 
RIKER: Full stop. 
HELM: (a Cardassian) Aye, sir. 
RIKER: Analysis, Mister Data. 
DATA: It appears to be a quantum fissure in the space-time continuum. 
RIKER: On screen. 
DATA: The anomaly cannot be seen, but I believe I can enhance it with a
warp field to make it visible. 
(a blue glow appears) 
RIKER: Is it dangerous? 
DATA: Not from this distance, sir. I am also detecting an ion trail
intersecting the phenomenon. I believe it was left by a Starfleet type
six shuttlecraft. 
WORF: So I was here. 
DATA: I have an explanation, sir.

[Observation lounge]

DATA: I believe the quantum fissure we discovered
is a fixed point across the space time continuum. A keyhole which
intersects many other quantum realities. 
TROI: What do you mean, quantum realities? 
DATA: For any event, there is an infinite number of possible outcomes.
Our choices determine which outcomes will follow. But there is a theory
in quantum physics that all possibilities that can happen, do happen in
alternate quantum realities. 
WORF: And somehow I have been shifting from one reality to another. 
DATA: That is correct. 
TROI: How did this happen? 
DATA: When Worf's shuttlecraft came into contact with the quantum
fissure, I believe its warp engines caused a small break in the
barriers between quantum realties. Worf was thrown into a state of
quantum flux. He immediately shifted into other realities. 
CRUSHER: And Geordi's visor somehow triggered that effect? 
DATA: Exactly. The visor uses a subspace field pulse. I believe that
whenever Geordi came near Worf, the field pulse intensified the quantum
flux and pushed Worf into another reality. 
WORF: How can we find my original quantum state and return me to it? 
WESLEY: We could scan the quantum fissure using a subspace differential
pulse. Maybe we could locate the quantum state that shares Worf's
signature and find a way to get him back. 
DATA: An excellent idea, Lieutenant. 
