GATES TROI LAFORGE WORF PICARD RIKER NADOR [on viewscreen] HAYES [OC] DATA
shoulder repairs raised relieved experiencing uniform wanted plasma starbase

[Bridge]

DATA: Lieutenant, have you completed the
metallurgical scan of the Array? 
WORF: Sir? 
DATA: The metallurgical scan. Have you completed it? 
WORF: I do not remember you asking me to. Captain, there is a
Cardassian ship approaching. Galor Class. 
PICARD: Open a channel. 
WORF: On screen. 
PICARD: This is Captain Jean-Luc Picard of the Starship Enterprise. You
are in Federation territory. Please explain your presence here. 
NADOR [on viewscreen]: We were wondering the same thing about you,
Captain. Why would Starfleet's flagship want to venture so close to the
Cardassian border? 
PICARD: We are repairing one of our subspace telescopes. 
NADOR [on viewscreen]: I see. May we offer our assistance? 
PICARD: No, thank you. Everything is under control. 
NADOR [on viewscreen]: If you don't mind my asking, what exactly is
this telescope of yours designed to do? 
PICARD: It's a long range subspace Array. We use it for gathering data
on astronomical phenomena. 
NADOR [on viewscreen]: I'm certain it would never be used to observe a
neighbouring species. 
PICARD: Certainly not. 
NADOR [on viewscreen]: Well then, best of luck with your repairs. Just
try to make certain that your studies are limited to astronomical
phenomena. 
(transmission ends) 
RIKER: Charming fellow. 
WORF: Captain, that ship was responsible for reprogramming the Array. 
PICARD: What are you saying? 
WORF: It is the same class and energy configuration as the ship we saw
in the imaging logs. 
PICARD: The imaging logs? Are you suggesting that you have evidence the
Cardassians have tampered with the Array? 
WORF: They are using the Array as a surveillance device. You saw the
logs yourself. 
PICARD: I haven't heard anything about this. 
RIKER: Neither have I. 
WORF: Commander Data, show them the logs you downloaded from the Array.

DATA: I know of no such logs. 
PICARD: Mister Worf, are you feeling all right? 
WORF: Yes. 
PICARD: Mister Data, perhaps you had better re-examine the Array. See
if you can find any evidence to support Mister Worf's claims. 
[Worf's quarters]

WORF: Doctor Crusher says I am experiencing further
memory loss, but my instincts tell me it is more than that. I remember
those imaging logs. I could tell you every detail, every word. 
TROI: (in a fetching off the shoulder blue number) Worf, let's assume
for a second you're right, that things did happen as you remember them.
Are you saying that everyone's memory on this ship has been altered but
yours? 
(doorbell) 
WORF: Enter. 
LAFORGE: Counsellor. Worf, I wanted you to know that we re-examined the
imaging logs. They don't show a Cardassian ship or any evidence that
the Array was reprogrammed. From what we can tell, the Array suffered a
simple mechanical failure. 
WORF: That is not right. I was certain that 
(Worf has a dizzy spell, and Data's painting moves walls) 
TROI: What's wrong? 
WORF: Counsellor, the painting that Commander Data gave me. It has
moved. 
TROI: Worf, I hung that painting there. At your birthday party,
remember? 
WORF: No. 
(the painting is now a battlecruiser) 
WORF: The painting has changed. Don't you see it? 
(Troi is now in uniform) 
WORF: Your hair and your clothing, they have changed as well. 
LAFORGE: Worf, maybe you should come with me to Sickbay and

[Bridge]

(blink and they are at red alert with a Cardassian
ship bearing down on them) 
PICARD: Now, Mister Worf! Now! 
RIKER: What are you waiting for? Raise the shields. 
(the tactical station has a raised box behind the Captain's chair) 
WORF: This panel configuration has been altered. I do not know how 
(Boom) 
DATA: Direct hit. Engineering Section and deck forty two. Shield
generators are overloading. 
(Boom) 
PICARD: Number One. 
RIKER: (taking over tactical) Firing photon torpedoes. Full spread. 
RIKER: Direct hit on their main reactor. They're returning fire. 
(Boom) 
DATA: Captain, we have sustained heavy damage to the deflector systems.
Hull breaches on decks seventeen and thirty six. 
PICARD: Ensign, take us out of here, maximum warp. 
GATES: Aye, sir. 
PICARD: Are they pursuing us? 
RIKER: No, sir. They are firing on the Argus Array. They destroyed it,
sir. 
PICARD: Bridge to Engineering. Mister La Forge, what's your status? 
HAYES [OC]: This is Ensign Hayes, sir. Commander La Forge has been
taken to Sickbay with plasma burns. There's serious damage to the
secondary plasma conduit but I think we've got it under control. 
PICARD: Acknowledged. Ensign, lay in a course to Starbase one two nine.

GATES: Aye, sir. 
PICARD: What happened back there, Lieutenant? 
WORF: I believe I experienced another memory loss. 
RIKER: Memory loss? What are you talking about? 
WORF: I do not feel well. Request to be temporarily relieved of duty,
sir. 
PICARD: Granted.

