TROI LAFORGE WORF PICARD ALL RIKER CRUSHER DATA
sending use logs cha lo needed toh beginning gave

[Corridor]

(Worf keeps looking around for something) 
RIKER: It looks like we're going to have to head into to the Argus
Array. This is the third time this year it's stopped relaying data.
Starfleet's beginning to think it's more than a simple malfunction. I
want you to start a long range scan once we get. Lieutenant? Are you
listening to me? 
WORF: Hmm? Yes, sir. 
RIKER: You seem awfully tense for a man who just came back from
vacation. 
WORF: Today is my birthday.

[Worf's quarters]

RIKER: What's the matter with you? 
WORF: Because it is my birthday I assumed that you or one of the others
would try to mount an unexpected social gathering. 
RIKER: A surprise party? Mister Worf, I hate surprise parties. I would
never do that to you. 
WORF: I am sorry, Commander. 
RIKER: Settle in. I'll meet you on the Bridge. 
WORF: Aye sir. 
(Riker leaves, Worf puts down his bat'leth and trophy and walks through
to) 
ALL: Surprise!! 
(Riker returns and puts a twee party hat on Worf) 
RIKER: I love surprise parties. 
(after the opening titles, seventeen or so candles are lit on the
chocolate
cake, and to the tune of For He's A Jolly Good Fellow) 
ALL: Cha Worf Toh'gah nah lo Pre'tOk. Cha Worf Toh'gah nah lo Pre'tOk.
Cha Worf Toh'gah nah lo Pre'tOk. Tu Mak Dagh Cha doh Borak! 
(Worf blows out the candles) 
WORF: That was not a Klingon song. 
TROI: It wasn't easy to translate. There doesn't seem to be a Klingon
word for jolly. 
CRUSHER: It's traditional for the birthday boy to cut the cake. 
RIKER: Captain Picard sends his birthday wishes. He was needed on the
Bridge. 
(Worf cuts a huge slice of soft cake) 
DATA: Happy birthday, Worf. 
WORF: Thank you. 
(Worf opens the present) 
WORF: Ah. A painting. 
DATA: Yes. I have entered my Expressionistic phase. This is my
interpretation of the Battle of HarOS. 
WORF: The Battle of HarOS? 
TROI: I think it's wonderful. And I know just where to put it. 
WORF: What are you doing? 
(Riker takes down the brass shield, and Troi hangs the big bright
canvas to the left of the door) 
TROI: I always thought this room could use a little more colour. 
LAFORGE: Nice. The Battle of HarOS, right? 
(Worf sways) 
LAFORGE: Worf, are you all right? 
WORF: Yes, Yes, I think Data's painting is making me dizzy. 
CRUSHER: Some cake? 
LAFORGE: Thank you, Doctor. 
(the inside of the cake is yellow) 
WORF: I thought the cake was chocolate. 
TROI: Don't I wish. This is from Alexander. He gave it me just before
he left to visit your parents. (takes cake) Thank you. 
(Worf unwraps a plaster cast) 
LAFORGE: What is it, Worf? 
WORF: It is a cast of Alexander's forehead. The ridges of a warrior. 
TROI: He wished he could have been here when you got back from shore
leave. You should have seen him, Worf. He stayed up all night talking
about how proud he was of his father. 
WORF: Thank you for watching him while I was away. 
TROI: Oh, it was my pleasure. 
PICARD: So, how old are you, Mister Worf? 
WORF: Captain, I was told you could not attend. 
PICARD: (tucking into cake) I wouldn't miss this for the world. How old
are you? 
WORF: I am old enough.

[Bridge]

(they've arrived at the array) 
PICARD: Report. 
DATA: The Array appears to be functioning normally, sir. 
RIKER: That can't be right. We were told the Array stopped relaying
data six days ago. 
DATA: The Array is still transmitting data, sir, but it is no longer
sending that information to the Federation. It appears someone has
redirected its imaging systems. 
PICARD: Where is the information being sent now? 
DATA: Sector one nine six five eight, sir. I am unable to access it's
main computer, so it is impossible to determine the exact location. 
RIKER: What's in that sector? 
WORF: It is uninhabited. But there could be a ship or a subspace relay
station receiving the data. 
RIKER: Captain. I suggest we beam a repair crew aboard the Array. We
can begin downloading their imaging logs, find out what the Array's
been observing for the past six days. 
PICARD: Make it so. 
RIKER: Mister Data? 
