TROI LAFORGE WORF PICARD RIKER NADOR CRUSHER DATA

[Worf's quarters]

(the trophy is smaller) 
CRUSHER: What's wrong? 
WORF: It says ninth place. This is not the same trophy. Someone is
playing a trick on me. 
CRUSHER: Worf, try to stay calm. Memory loss can be very disorienting. 
WORF: The log. I recorded a personal log on my way back to the
Enterprise. Computer, access personal logs on Shuttlecraft Curie. Show
my log entry for Stardate 47391.2. 
WORF [on monitor]: Personal log, stardate 47391.2. I am returning from
the Bat'leth competition on Forcas Three. The conditions were
difficult. Several contenders were maimed. One of the contenders used
an illegal T'gha manoeuvre against me. The judges chose to ignore it
and I was robbed of my rightful standing. I was awarded ninth place. I
am looking forward to resuming my duties aboard the En 
WORF: I do not understand. 
CRUSHER: Worf, I'm sure this is very disturbing for you, but don't
worry, your memories will return. The best thing you could do right now
is to settle back into your normal routine, but slowly. 
WORF: Thank you, Doctor. 
CRUSHER: Let me know if you have any more problems with dizziness. I'll
give you a hypospray.

[Bridge]

DATA: Lieutenant, have you completed the
metallurgical scan of the Array? 
WORF: Sir? 
DATA: The metallurgical scan. Have you completed it? 
WORF: I do not remember you asking me to. Captain, there is a
Cardassian ship approaching. Galor Class. 
PICARD: Open a channel. 
WORF: On screen. 
PICARD: This is Captain Jean-Luc Picard of the Starship Enterprise. You
are in Federation territory. Please explain your presence here. 
NADOR [on viewscreen]: We were wondering the same thing about you,
Captain. Why would Starfleet's flagship want to venture so close to the
Cardassian border? 
PICARD: We are repairing one of our subspace telescopes. 
NADOR [on viewscreen]: I see. May we offer our assistance? 
PICARD: No, thank you. Everything is under control. 
NADOR [on viewscreen]: If you don't mind my asking, what exactly is
this telescope of yours designed to do? 
PICARD: It's a long range subspace Array. We use it for gathering data
on astronomical phenomena. 
NADOR [on viewscreen]: I'm certain it would never be used to observe a
neighbouring species. 
PICARD: Certainly not. 
NADOR [on viewscreen]: Well then, best of luck with your repairs. Just
try to make certain that your studies are limited to astronomical
phenomena. 
(transmission ends) 
RIKER: Charming fellow. 
WORF: Captain, that ship was responsible for reprogramming the Array. 
PICARD: What are you saying? 
WORF: It is the same class and energy configuration as the ship we saw
in the imaging logs. 
PICARD: The imaging logs? Are you suggesting that you have evidence the
Cardassians have tampered with the Array? 
WORF: They are using the Array as a surveillance device. You saw the
logs yourself. 
PICARD: I haven't heard anything about this. 
RIKER: Neither have I. 
WORF: Commander Data, show them the logs you downloaded from the Array.

DATA: I know of no such logs. 
PICARD: Mister Worf, are you feeling all right? 
WORF: Yes. 
PICARD: Mister Data, perhaps you had better re-examine the Array. See
if you can find any evidence to support Mister Worf's claims. 
[Worf's quarters]

WORF: Doctor Crusher says I am experiencing further
memory loss, but my instincts tell me it is more than that. I remember
those imaging logs. I could tell you every detail, every word. 
TROI: (in a fetching off the shoulder blue number) Worf, let's assume
for a second you're right, that things did happen as you remember them.
Are you saying that everyone's memory on this ship has been altered but
yours? 
(doorbell) 
WORF: Enter. 
LAFORGE: Counsellor. Worf, I wanted you to know that we re-examined the
imaging logs. They don't show a Cardassian ship or any evidence that
the Array was reprogrammed. From what we can tell, the Array suffered a
simple mechanical failure. 
WORF: That is not right. I was certain that 
(Worf has a dizzy spell, and Data's painting moves walls) 
TROI: What's wrong? 
WORF: Counsellor, the painting that Commander Data gave me. It has
moved. 
TROI: Worf, I hung that painting there. At your birthday party,
remember? 
WORF: No. 
(the painting is now a battlecruiser) 
WORF: The painting has changed. Don't you see it? 
(Troi is now in uniform) 
WORF: Your hair and your clothing, they have changed as well. 
LAFORGE: Worf, maybe you should come with me to Sickbay and

