GATES RIKER WORF PICARD PRESSMAN BLACKWELL [on monitor] WORF [OC] DATA
gates log core remain minimum investigation recommend trust crisis

[Picard's quarters]

PICARD: Come. 
RIKER: The scan analysis you asked for. 
PICARD: Thank you. 
RIKER: Is there something else, sir? 
PICARD: Yes, there is. (reading) Judge Advocate General's Report.
Stardate 36764. Subject, inquiry into mutiny aboard USS Pegasus. Based
on testimony from Captain Pressman and other surviving officers, the
Judge Advocate believes there is sufficient evidence to conclude that
certain members of the crew did mutiny against the captain just prior
to the destruction of the Pegasus. Mutiny on a Federation starship?
That's shocking. It's unthinkable. And yet you've never mentioned it. 
RIKER: No, sir. 
PICARD: You know, it wasn't easy to get this record. I had to pull in
quite a few favours at Starfleet just to get a look at it. It seems
that it was classified by Starfleet Intelligence. So, not only was the
Pegasus carrying sensitive equipment which
must be allowed to fall into Romulan hands, not only was there a
mysterious explosion which seemed to destroy the ship but didn't, but
it seems there was a mutiny on board. Now, I've read the official
report of the inquiry on that mutiny, but I want to know your version
of what happened. 
RIKER: I was on the Bridge. The ship was at yellow alert. We were
running some tests on the engines. Something went wrong. There was an
explosion in Engineering. Heavy casualties. In the midst of this
crisis, the First Officer, the Chief of Engineering and most of Bridge
crew mutinied against Captain Pressman. 
PICARD: Why? 
RIKER: They thought he was jeopardising the ship. 
PICARD: And you? 
RIKER: I was seven months out of the Academy, my head still ringing
with words like duty and honour. When they turned on him, I thought
they were a bunch of self-serving, disloyal officers, so I grabbed a
phaser and defended my captain. Two or three others joined us, but it
was clear by then that the mutineers had most of the crew behind them.
We felt a need to get off the ship. There was a running firefight all
the way to the escape pod. About five minutes after we left the ship
there was an explosion. 
PICARD: The Judge Advocate also believes that the surviving officers
are deliberately withholding vital information from this inquiry.
Further investigation is recommended. Will, there was no further
investigation. This report was classified and then it was quietly
buried. Why? 
RIKER: Sir, may I suggest you take this up with Admiral 
PICARD: I'm taking this up with you, Will! The Judge Advocate thought
you were participating in a conspiracy to cover up the truth. Now, what
the hell is going on here, Will? Why did that mutiny happen? Why is
Pressman so determined to find your ship twelve years later? 
RIKER: I've said all I can. I am under direct orders from Admiral
Pressman not to discuss this, sir. 
PICARD: Very well. He's an admiral, I'm a captain. I cannot force you
to disobey his orders. Therefore I will have to remain in the dark on
this mission. And I will just have to trust that you will not let
Pressman put this ship at unnecessary risk. And if I find that that
trust has been misplaced, then I will have to re-evaluate the command
structure of this ship. Dismissed.

[Ready room]

BLACKWELL [on monitor]: Captain, Starfleet places
the highest priority on the success of this mission. Your request for a
delay is denied. 
PICARD: Margaret, something's very wrong here. Do you know what's going
on? 
BLACKWELL [on monitor]: I know that the Chief of Starfleet Intelligence
herself is watching this one, Jean-Luc. So you'd be well advised to
follow Pressman's orders and leave it at that. Starfleet out. 
WORF [OC]: Worf to Captain Picard. We are approaching asteroid gamma
six zero one, sir. 
PICARD: On my way.

[Bridge]

PICARD: Mister Worf, where are the Romulans? 
WORF: They are out of sensor range on the far side of the system. 
PICARD: Take us to within fifteen kilometres of the asteroid and hold
that position. 
WORF: Aye, sir. 
PICARD: Mister Data, report. 
DATA: For the past several hours, I have been scanning the area where
we detected the resonance signature of the Pegasus. From the strength
and polarity of the signature, it would appear that most of the warp
core is still intact. 
PRESSMAN: If we're lucky, the entire engineering section could be down
there. 
RIKER: But how do we get to it? I wouldn't want to try to transport
through that much solid rock. 
PICARD: Agreed. What about a shuttle? We could send it down through one
of these fissures. 
DATA: I would recommend against it, sir. There may be gravimetric or
magnetic fluctuations inside the asteroid which would overpower the
engines of a shuttlecraft. 
PRESSMAN: Sounds like the best solution is to take the Enterprise in. 
RIKER: Into the asteroid? 
PRESSMAN: That's right. Put this fissure on the main viewer. This chasm
is large enough for us to manoeuvre in. Besides, if we ever hope to
salvage the Pegasus, we're going to need a starship to do it. 
PICARD: Mister Data? 
DATA: It is theoretically possible, sir, but I am unaware of any prior
situations where a starship was taken so deeply inside a planetary
body. There may be unforeseen difficulties. 
PICARD: Admiral, I don't think we can risk 
PRESSMAN: I've made my decision. Prepare to take the Enterprise in,
Captain. That's an order. 
PICARD: Mister Data, will you please note in the ship's log that this
action is being taken over my explicit objections. 
DATA: It is so noted, sir. 
PICARD: Yellow Alert. 
RIKER: Shields up. Inertial dampers at maximum. 
PICARD: Ensign Gates, plot a course into the chasm, manoeuvring
thrusters only. 
GATES: Course plotted, sir. 
PICARD: Take us in. 
(Enterprise gently navigates the tunnel) 
DATA: We are now two kilometres beneath the surface. 
(shake) 
WORF: Captain, we are encountering shifts in the magnetic field
density. 
PICARD: Admiral, if is passage narrows to less than five hundred
metres, I will abort the mission. You can charge me with
insubordination if you wish, but I'm not going to risk the Enterprise
for a salvage operation. 
WORF: Captain, I am reading a large resonance signature directly ahead.

(NCC53847 is sticking out of the rock) 
PRESSMAN: Pegasus. 
RIKER: What the hell happened? 
DATA: Sensors show that the ship is still intact. However, sixty five
percent of it is contained within the asteroid. 
RIKER: It looks if half the ship materialised inside solid rock. 
DATA: Yes, sir. I do not understand how this could have happened. 
PRESSMAN: Let's keep the speculation to a minimum. We have to begin the
salvage operation. The equipment we need was in main Engineering. Can
you scan that section of the Pegasus? 
DATA: The starboard bulkhead of main Engineering is contained within
the rock face, but most of its compartment is still intact. 
WORF: There is a hull breach in that section. 
PICARD: If we begin a power transfer, can we restore life support
systems to that compartment? 
DATA: I believe so, sir. The breach can be temporarily sealed by
extending our shields. 
PRESSMAN: See to it. Once you've restored life support, Commander Riker
and I will beam directly into Engineering. 
PICARD: Admiral, I would like to send down a complete away team 
PRESSMAN: There's some very sensitive equipment over there. I don't
want anyone else near it. 
PICARD: Yes, sir.

