PICARD RIKER PRESSMAN LAFORGE CREWMAN

[Corridor]

RIKER: So, who won the contest? 
PICARD: Paul Menegay, a seven year old. He did a most interesting clay
sculpture of my head. 
RIKER: Was that the orange one with the lumpy skin? 
PICARD: Yes. Oh, you'll be interested to know that I've arranged for a
Commander Riker Day next month. I'm even considering making an entry
myself. 
RIKER: Great.

[Transporter room]

PICARD: Energise. 
CREWMAN: Aye, sir. 
PRESSMAN: Will. I'll bet you never thought you'd see me again. 
(everyone say hi! to Terry O'Quinn, eventually to be John Locke on
Lost) 
RIKER: It's good to see you, sir. 
PRESSMAN: Yeah, sure it is. You look like you're about to faint. 
RIKER: No. It's just it's been a long time. Captain Jean-Luc Picard,
Admiral Erik Pressman. 
PICARD: Pressman? Yes, of course. You were Will's first commanding
officer, on the Pegasus. 
PRESSMAN: That's right. As a matter of fact, the Pegasus is the reason
I'm here. 
RIKER: Sir? 
PRESSMAN: The Pegasus is still out there, Will. And the Romulans found
her.

[Observation lounge]

PRESSMAN: As you know, the starship Pegasus was
lost in this sector some twelve years ago along with most of its crew.
I was the captain and Commander Riker here was my helmsman. 
PICARD: I remember hearing about it. The ship was destroyed by a warp
core breach as I recall. 
RIKER: The Captain and I, along with seven others managed to get to the
escape pod before the breach became critical. 
PRESSMAN: From space, we saw what appeared to be a matter-antimatter
explosion which vaporised the ship. 
RIKER: No wreckage was found, so Starfleet officially declared the ship
destroyed. 
PRESSMAN: However, all that changed three days ago. Starfleet
Intelligence has an operative in Romulan High Command. He sent us a
message that a Romulan warbird had located a piece of debris in the
Devolin system which was positively identified as being from the
Pegasus. The warbird was then ordered to locate the rest of the ship,
if possible, and retrieve it. 
LAFORGE: What would the Romulans want with pieces of a twelve year old
starship? 
PRESSMAN: The Pegasus was a prototype. Experimental engine, new weapon
systems. In fact, some of our designs were used in constructing the
Enterprise. There are a lot of things on board the Romulans would love
to get their hands on. 
PICARD: What are our orders? 
PRESSMAN: To find the ship before the Romulans do. Salvage it if
possible, destroy it if necessary. You command the Enterprise while I
remain in command of the overall mission. 
LAFORGE: We'll need metallurgical and chromographic specs on the
Pegasus in order to set up the proper search parameters. 
PRESSMAN: I'll make the appropriate information available to you. 
PICARD: Very well. Lay in a course for the Devolin system. 
RIKER: Aye, sir.

