RIKER LAFORGE WORF PICARD PRESSMAN DATA
ringing state bring engineering scanned starfleet sense trust minutes

[Bridge]

DATA: Scan of grid one five seven is complete. I am
moving to grid one five eight. 
WORF: The Romulan warship is still searching grid two seven zero. 
RIKER: They're sure spending a lot of time over there. I wonder if they

LAFORGE: Commander, I think we might have just struck paydirt. There's
a subspace resonance signature coming from that asteroid. From the
frequency variances, it looks like the pattern from a Federation warp
core. 
RIKER: Captain Picard to the Bridge. Take us to within ten kilometres
of asteroid gamma six zero one. 
(Picard and Pressman enter) 
RIKER: Geordi's found something. 
LAFORGE: There's a subspace resonance signature coming from that
asteroid, sir. It could be the warp core of the Pegasus. 
PRESSMAN: I think he's right. I recognise some of the variance
patterns. 
PICARD: Put the asteroid on the main viewscreen. 
DATA: I have confirmed Geordi's readings. The resonance signature is
originating from somewhere beneath the asteroid's surface. 
PRESSMAN: Beneath the surface? How's that possible? 
DATA: This asteroid contains several deep chasms large enough for a
starship to enter. It is possible the Pegasus drifted into the
asteroid's gravitational field and was pulled down into one of the
fissures. 
WORF: Sir, the Romulan warbird has altered course once again. They are
heading toward our position. 
RIKER: They probably want to see what we're so interested in over here.

PICARD: Mister Data, how long will it take to determine the exact
location of the Pegasus? 
DATA: At least another six hours, sir. 
PRESSMAN: That's too long. If the Romulans start searching the
asteroid, they could find the ship before we do. 
RIKER: I recommend we destroy the asteroid. It would take most of our
photon torpedoes, but it would preclude any possibility of the Pegasus
falling into Romulan hands. 
PRESSMAN: Our top priority is to salvage the ship, Commander. I'll
consider destroying it only as a last resort. 
RIKER: Yes, sir. 
PRESSMAN: Captain, could you give me a third alternative? 
PICARD: Mister Data, would it possible to saturate the asteroid with
verteron particles that could mask the resonance signature and prevent
the Romulans from detecting it? 
DATA: In order for the deception to succeed, it would have to appear to
be a natural phenomenon. Verteron particles are artificial in nature. 
LAFORGE: Wait a minute. We could blanket the asteroid with high levels
of ionising radiation. There's so much of it in the system already, the
Romulans won't know the difference. 
PICARD: Mister Data? 
DATA: Theoretically, sir, it should work. 
RIKER: If we do this, we have to do it fast the Romulans will be within
sensor range in less than a minute. 
PICARD: Make it so, Mister Data. 
DATA: Aye, sir. Initiating ionisation field pulse. 
PICARD: When he's finished we'll have to move away and make it look
like we've scanned the asteroid but haven't find anything. 
RIKER: Lay in a course for the next search grid. Stand by to engage. 
PICARD: If it works, the Romulans won't find anything and we can return
later. If it doesn't 
PRESSMAN: If it doesn't work, we'll have handed them the Pegasus. 
DATA: Ionisation pulse complete. 
PICARD: Helm, one quarter impulse. Engage. 
DATA: The Romulans are initiating a tachyon scan of the asteroid. They
have switched to their lateral sensor array. Beginning another scan. 
RIKER: They're certainly being thorough. 
DATA: The warbird has completed its sensor sweep. 
PRESSMAN: If they found the resonance signature, they should be sending
away teams any second. 
DATA: They are moving out. 
PICARD: Mister Data, we must convince the Romulans that we're still
looking for the Pegasus. I want you to continue scanning this system. 
DATA: Yes, sir. 
PICARD: I want to be back at this asteroid at oh eight hundred hours
tomorrow. Plan your search pattern accordingly. 
RIKER: Aye, sir. 
PICARD: Admiral, would you care to join me for some late dinner? 
PRESSMAN: Please excuse me, Captain, but I think I'd better turn in
early. 
PICARD: You have the Bridge, Number One. Oh, and will you bring the
scan analysis to my quarters when you're off watch? 
RIKER: Aye, sir. 
(Picard leaves) 
RIKER: Initiate search of grid one six three. 
DATA: Beginning sensor sweeps. 
PRESSMAN: Commander, I want to see you in the Captain's Ready room. 
RIKER: Mister Data, you have the Bridge. 
DATA: Aye, sir.

[Ready room]

PRESSMAN: What the hell is the matter with you?
Destroy the Pegasus before we've even taken a look at it? 
RIKER: I thought it was more important that the Romulans 
PRESSMAN: Well, you were wrong! We have a chance here to change the
balance of power in this quadrant, but we can't very well do that if we
destroy the Pegasus, now can we? 
RIKER: No, sir. 
PRESSMAN: It hasn't been easy for you I'm sure, keeping your Captain
and friends in the dark like this. 
RIKER: I haven't enjoyed it, if that's what you mean. 
PRESSMAN: I hope you understand that it's necessary. 
RIKER: I understand that you think it's necessary. 
PRESSMAN: You have changed. 
RIKER: Changed? 
PRESSMAN: Something the Captain and I were talking about. To be honest
I'm glad to see this kind of change in you, Will. State your opinion
and stand by it. It's a far cry from the young man who used to sit at
my helm and worry about pressing the wrong button. 
RIKER: A lot of things can change in twelve years, Admiral. 
PRESSMAN: Yes, they can. But it's important that a man changes the
right things in his life, not his sense of duty, not his sense of
loyalty. 
RIKER: I'd like to think that I haven't changed those things, sir. 
PRESSMAN: I would like to think that too. Because those things say more
about a man than the rank on his collar or the
uniform he wears. They define him. Twelve years ago, a lot of older and
more seasoned officers turned away from their duty, but you stood up
for what was right. I'm sorry, Will. I know the kind of man you are. I
know that I can count on you again.

[Picard's quarters]

PICARD: Come. 
RIKER: The scan analysis you asked for. 
PICARD: Thank you. 
RIKER: Is there something else, sir? 
PICARD: Yes, there is. (reading) Judge Advocate General's Report.
Stardate 36764. Subject, inquiry into mutiny aboard USS Pegasus. Based
on testimony from Captain Pressman and other surviving officers, the
Judge Advocate believes there is sufficient evidence to conclude that
certain members of the crew did mutiny against the captain just prior
to the destruction of the Pegasus. Mutiny on a Federation starship?
That's shocking. It's unthinkable. And yet you've never mentioned it. 
RIKER: No, sir. 
PICARD: You know, it wasn't easy to get this record. I had to pull in
quite a few favours at Starfleet just to get a look at it. It seems
that it was classified by Starfleet Intelligence. So, not only was the
Pegasus carrying sensitive equipment which
must be allowed to fall into Romulan hands, not only was there a
mysterious explosion which seemed to destroy the ship but didn't, but
it seems there was a mutiny on board. Now, I've read the official
report of the inquiry on that mutiny, but I want to know your version
of what happened. 
RIKER: I was on the Bridge. The ship was at yellow alert. We were
running some tests on the engines. Something went wrong. There was an
explosion in Engineering. Heavy casualties. In the midst of this
crisis, the First Officer, the Chief of Engineering and most of Bridge
crew mutinied against Captain Pressman. 
PICARD: Why? 
RIKER: They thought he was jeopardising the ship. 
PICARD: And you? 
RIKER: I was seven months out of the Academy, my head still ringing
with words like duty and honour. When they turned on him, I thought
they were a bunch of self-serving, disloyal officers, so I grabbed a
phaser and defended my captain. Two or three others joined us, but it
was clear by then that the mutineers had most of the crew behind them.
We felt a need to get off the ship. There was a running firefight all
the way to the escape pod. About five minutes after we left the ship
there was an explosion. 
PICARD: The Judge Advocate also believes that the surviving officers
are deliberately withholding vital information from this inquiry.
Further investigation is recommended. Will, there was no further
investigation. This report was classified and then it was quietly
buried. Why? 
RIKER: Sir, may I suggest you take this up with Admiral 
PICARD: I'm taking this up with you, Will! The Judge Advocate thought
you were participating in a conspiracy to cover up the truth. Now, what
the hell is going on here, Will? Why did that mutiny happen? Why is
Pressman so determined to find your ship twelve years later? 
RIKER: I've said all I can. I am under direct orders from Admiral
Pressman not to discuss this, sir. 
PICARD: Very well. He's an admiral, I'm a captain. I cannot force you
to disobey his orders. Therefore I will have to remain in the dark on
this mission. And I will just have to trust that you will not let
Pressman put this ship at unnecessary risk. And if I find that that
trust has been misplaced, then I will have to re-evaluate the command
structure of this ship. Dismissed.

