RIKER LAFORGE WORF PICARD PRESSMAN CRUSHER DATA

[Picard's quarters]

(this area of space is strewn with rocky debris) 
PICARD: As a matter of fact, I never met Will until he reported on
board at Farpoint Station. 
PRESSMAN: You chose your first officer without ever meeting him? 
PICARD: I was looking through the records of about fifty candidates and
Will's was much like all the others, filled with lots of dry statistics
and glowing letters of recommendation that tell you nothing. I was
about to put it aside and look at another file and then something
caught my eye. There was an incident on Altair Three when Will was
First Officer of the Hood. He refused to let Captain DeSoto beam down
during a crisis. He disobeyed a direct order and he risked a general
court martial because he thought he was right. When I read that, I knew
that I had found my Number One. 
PRESSMAN: You wanted someone with a history of disobedience? 
PICARD: I wanted someone who would stand up to me. Someone who was more
concerned with the safety of the ship and accomplishing the mission
than with how something looked on his record. To me, that's one of the
marks of a good officer. 
PRESSMAN: Frankly, I've always felt it was more important for an
officer to trust his captain's judgment. In a crisis, there's no time
for explanations. Orders have to be obeyed without question or lives
may be lost. 
PICARD: I am aware of that, Admiral. 
PRESSMAN: Of course you are. I guess this mission has brought up some
old ghosts for me. You know what it's like to lose a ship. You're
always wondering if there was something else you should have done,
something you missed. 
PICARD: Admiral, the record regarding the loss of the Pegasus is a bit
vague from the moment just before you abandoned ship. Is there anything
that you can add to the official account? 
PRESSMAN: I'm afraid not. But I can tell you this. Twelve years ago, I
needed an officer that I could count on in a crisis. Someone who would
support and obey my decisions without question. Someone who was willing
to trust my judgment. And that someone was Will Riker. Without his
loyalty, none of us would have survived.

[Sickbay]

(Riker is in a martial arts robe) 
CRUSHER: What's wrong? 
RIKER: I think I busted a rib. 
CRUSHER: (to patient) Excuse me. What were you doing? 
RIKER: I was doing bat'leth moves with Mister Worf. I jabbed when I
should've blocked. He caught me right in the side. It's a good thing we
were using sticks instead of the real blades. 
CRUSHER: It's broken all right. Give him ten cc's of terakine for the
pain. 
RIKER: I can't believe how stupid I was. 
CRUSHER: You both must have got a little carried away, that's all. 
RIKER: No, it was my fault. I got distracted at a crucial moment. 
CRUSHER: It can happen to anyone. 
RIKER: I knew what I was supposed to do and I didn't do it. If those
had real bat'leths I might be dead right now. 
CRUSHER: There, all better. Will, it's all right. You made a mistake.
No harm done. You'll be better next time. 
RIKER: Yeah, maybe.

[Bridge]

DATA: Scan of grid one five seven is complete. I am
moving to grid one five eight. 
WORF: The Romulan warship is still searching grid two seven zero. 
RIKER: They're sure spending a lot of time over there. I wonder if they

LAFORGE: Commander, I think we might have just struck paydirt. There's
a subspace resonance signature coming from that asteroid. From the
frequency variances, it looks like the pattern from a Federation warp
core. 
RIKER: Captain Picard to the Bridge. Take us to within ten kilometres
of asteroid gamma six zero one. 
(Picard and Pressman enter) 
RIKER: Geordi's found something. 
LAFORGE: There's a subspace resonance signature coming from that
asteroid, sir. It could be the warp core of the Pegasus. 
PRESSMAN: I think he's right. I recognise some of the variance
patterns. 
PICARD: Put the asteroid on the main viewscreen. 
DATA: I have confirmed Geordi's readings. The resonance signature is
originating from somewhere beneath the asteroid's surface. 
PRESSMAN: Beneath the surface? How's that possible? 
DATA: This asteroid contains several deep chasms large enough for a
starship to enter. It is possible the Pegasus drifted into the
asteroid's gravitational field and was pulled down into one of the
fissures. 
WORF: Sir, the Romulan warbird has altered course once again. They are
heading toward our position. 
RIKER: They probably want to see what we're so interested in over here.

PICARD: Mister Data, how long will it take to determine the exact
location of the Pegasus? 
DATA: At least another six hours, sir. 
PRESSMAN: That's too long. If the Romulans start searching the
asteroid, they could find the ship before we do. 
RIKER: I recommend we destroy the asteroid. It would take most of our
photon torpedoes, but it would preclude any possibility of the Pegasus
falling into Romulan hands. 
PRESSMAN: Our top priority is to salvage the ship, Commander. I'll
consider destroying it only as a last resort. 
RIKER: Yes, sir. 
PRESSMAN: Captain, could you give me a third alternative? 
PICARD: Mister Data, would it possible to saturate the asteroid with
verteron particles that could mask the resonance signature and prevent
the Romulans from detecting it? 
DATA: In order for the deception to succeed, it would have to appear to
be a natural phenomenon. Verteron particles are artificial in nature. 
LAFORGE: Wait a minute. We could blanket the asteroid with high levels
of ionising radiation. There's so much of it in the system already, the
Romulans won't know the difference. 
PICARD: Mister Data? 
DATA: Theoretically, sir, it should work. 
RIKER: If we do this, we have to do it fast the Romulans will be within
sensor range in less than a minute. 
PICARD: Make it so, Mister Data. 
DATA: Aye, sir. Initiating ionisation field pulse. 
PICARD: When he's finished we'll have to move away and make it look
like we've scanned the asteroid but haven't find anything. 
RIKER: Lay in a course for the next search grid. Stand by to engage. 
PICARD: If it works, the Romulans won't find anything and we can return
later. If it doesn't 
PRESSMAN: If it doesn't work, we'll have handed them the Pegasus. 
DATA: Ionisation pulse complete. 
PICARD: Helm, one quarter impulse. Engage. 
DATA: The Romulans are initiating a tachyon scan of the asteroid. They
have switched to their lateral sensor array. Beginning another scan. 
RIKER: They're certainly being thorough. 
DATA: The warbird has completed its sensor sweep. 
PRESSMAN: If they found the resonance signature, they should be sending
away teams any second. 
DATA: They are moving out. 
PICARD: Mister Data, we must convince the Romulans that we're still
looking for the Pegasus. I want you to continue scanning this system. 
DATA: Yes, sir. 
PICARD: I want to be back at this asteroid at oh eight hundred hours
tomorrow. Plan your search pattern accordingly. 
RIKER: Aye, sir. 
PICARD: Admiral, would you care to join me for some late dinner? 
PRESSMAN: Please excuse me, Captain, but I think I'd better turn in
early. 
PICARD: You have the Bridge, Number One. Oh, and will you bring the
scan analysis to my quarters when you're off watch? 
RIKER: Aye, sir. 
(Picard leaves) 
RIKER: Initiate search of grid one six three. 
DATA: Beginning sensor sweeps. 
PRESSMAN: Commander, I want to see you in the Captain's Ready room. 
RIKER: Mister Data, you have the Bridge. 
DATA: Aye, sir.

