RIKER LAFORGE WORF PICARD PRESSMAN LAFORGE [OC] SIROL [on viewscreen] RIKER [OC] DATA
sure theory await surface weapons matter short unstable admiral

[Bridge]

PRESSMAN: Report. 
PICARD: The Romulans have destroyed the entrance to the chasm with
their disruptors. They've sealed us in. 
WORF: Sir, there is an incoming message. It is from the warbird. 
PICARD: On screen. 
WORF: Aye, sir. 
SIROL [on viewscreen]: Captain, you seem to be in a very unfortunate
circumstance. How can we help? 
PICARD: Are you responsible for this? 
SIROL [on viewscreen]: I'm not sure. We were conducting some geological
experiments on the surface of the asteroid. It is entirely possible
that we accidently sealed you in. If only we had known you were beneath
the surface, if you had shared your plans with us, this might have been
avoided. 
PICARD: What do you want, Sirol? 
SIROL [on viewscreen]: I don't want anything, Captain, but I will offer
to help you. 
PICARD: How? 
SIROL [on viewscreen]: By transporting your crew aboard my ship. We'll
take you back to Romulus where, after a short stay as our guests, you
will be returned to the Federation. 
PICARD: Thank you for your generous offer. I will take it under
advisement. 
SIROL [on viewscreen]: As you wish. We will be continuing our research
in this system for a while longer. I await your decision. 
(transmission ends) 
PRESSMAN: We can't do it. If we abandon the Enterprise they'll come
back here and get their hands on both ships. 
PICARD: Agreed. Options? 
WORF: Captain, I believe we could use the phasers to cut our way out. 
DATA: The asteroid's internal structure is highly unstable. Any attempt
to cut through the rock could cause the entire chasm to collapse. 
RIKER: Captain, I have a suggestion. There's a piece of equipment in
Admiral Pressman's quarters under guard which might get us out of here.
It's a prototype for a Federation cloaking device. 
PRESSMAN: You just ended your career, Will. 
PICARD: That's what it's all about. A cloaking device. In the Treaty of
Algeron the Federation specifically agreed not to develop cloaking
technology. 
PRESSMAN: And that treaty is the biggest mistake we ever made. It's
kept us from exploiting a vital area of defence. 
PICARD: That treaty has kept us in peace for sixty years, and as a
Starfleet officer, you're supposed to uphold it. 
PRESSMAN: Now that's enough. I'm taking command of this vessel. Mister
Worf, escort the Captain to his quarters. 
(Worf folds his arms) 
RIKER: I don't think anyone's going to come to your defence this time. 
PICARD: How do we use the cloak to escape from the asteroid? 
RIKER: It's more than just a cloak. It changes the structure of matter.
In theory, a ship using this device could pass through normal matter. 
PICARD: I see why you were so eager to find it. 
PRESSMAN: Can't you see the potential here? The phasing cloak could be
the greatest breakthrough in weapons research in the last fifty years. 
PICARD: Except it's illegal. It's in violation of an agreement that the
Federation signed in good faith. 
RIKER: Captain, I think we could adapt the cloak for the Enterprise. 
PICARD: Mister Data? 
DATA: Theoretically it is possible, sir. But it would take several
hours to study the device and determine how to link it to our systems. 
PICARD: Make it so.

Captain's log, stardate 47457.1. We have been
trapped inside the asteroid for over eight hours. Mister Data and
Commander La Forge inform me that they are nearly ready to engage the
cloak.

[Engineering]

LAFORGE: Commander, we've routed the impulse
engines through the plasma conduits, but you'll have to watch the
intercooler levels. If they get too high, we'll blow the entire relay
system. 
RIKER [OC]: Understood. 
[Bridge]

RIKER: I think that's what happened twelve years
ago. The cloak blew out the plasma relays on the Pegasus after we left
the ship. The plasma ignited in space, and it looked as if the ship had
been destroyed. 
PRESSMAN: So the ship drifted into this system still in a phased state,
and when it passed through this asteroid 
RIKER: The cloak failed, and half the ship materialised in solid rock. 
LAFORGE [OC]: La Forge to Bridge. 
