BLACKWELL PICARD RIKER PRESSMAN WORF

[Ready room]

PRESSMAN: What the hell is the matter with you?
Destroy the Pegasus before we've even taken a look at it? 
RIKER: I thought it was more important that the Romulans 
PRESSMAN: Well, you were wrong! We have a chance here to change the
balance of power in this quadrant, but we can't very well do that if we
destroy the Pegasus, now can we? 
RIKER: No, sir. 
PRESSMAN: It hasn't been easy for you I'm sure, keeping your Captain
and friends in the dark like this. 
RIKER: I haven't enjoyed it, if that's what you mean. 
PRESSMAN: I hope you understand that it's necessary. 
RIKER: I understand that you think it's necessary. 
PRESSMAN: You have changed. 
RIKER: Changed? 
PRESSMAN: Something the Captain and I were talking about. To be honest
I'm glad to see this kind of change in you, Will. State your opinion
and stand by it. It's a far cry from the young man who used to sit at
my helm and worry about pressing the wrong button. 
RIKER: A lot of things can change in twelve years, Admiral. 
PRESSMAN: Yes, they can. But it's important that a man changes the
right things in his life, not his sense of duty, not his sense of
loyalty. 
RIKER: I'd like to think that I haven't changed those things, sir. 
PRESSMAN: I would like to think that too. Because those things say more
about a man than the rank on his collar or the
uniform he wears. They define him. Twelve years ago, a lot of older and
more seasoned officers turned away from their duty, but you stood up
for what was right. I'm sorry, Will. I know the kind of man you are. I
know that I can count on you again.

[Picard's quarters]

PICARD: Come. 
RIKER: The scan analysis you asked for. 
PICARD: Thank you. 
RIKER: Is there something else, sir? 
PICARD: Yes, there is. (reading) Judge Advocate General's Report.
Stardate 36764. Subject, inquiry into mutiny aboard USS Pegasus. Based
on testimony from Captain Pressman and other surviving officers, the
Judge Advocate believes there is sufficient evidence to conclude that
certain members of the crew did mutiny against the captain just prior
to the destruction of the Pegasus. Mutiny on a Federation starship?
That's shocking. It's unthinkable. And yet you've never mentioned it. 
RIKER: No, sir. 
PICARD: You know, it wasn't easy to get this record. I had to pull in
quite a few favours at Starfleet just to get a look at it. It seems
that it was classified by Starfleet Intelligence. So, not only was the
Pegasus carrying sensitive equipment which
must be allowed to fall into Romulan hands, not only was there a
mysterious explosion which seemed to destroy the ship but didn't, but
it seems there was a mutiny on board. Now, I've read the official
report of the inquiry on that mutiny, but I want to know your version
of what happened. 
RIKER: I was on the Bridge. The ship was at yellow alert. We were
running some tests on the engines. Something went wrong. There was an
explosion in Engineering. Heavy casualties. In the midst of this
crisis, the First Officer, the Chief of Engineering and most of Bridge
crew mutinied against Captain Pressman. 
PICARD: Why? 
RIKER: They thought he was jeopardising the ship. 
PICARD: And you? 
RIKER: I was seven months out of the Academy, my head still ringing
with words like duty and honour. When they turned on him, I thought
they were a bunch of self-serving, disloyal officers, so I grabbed a
phaser and defended my captain. Two or three others joined us, but it
was clear by then that the mutineers had most of the crew behind them.
We felt a need to get off the ship. There was a running firefight all
the way to the escape pod. About five minutes after we left the ship
there was an explosion. 
PICARD: The Judge Advocate also believes that the surviving officers
are deliberately withholding vital information from this inquiry.
Further investigation is recommended. Will, there was no further
investigation. This report was classified and then it was quietly
buried. Why? 
RIKER: Sir, may I suggest you take this up with Admiral 
PICARD: I'm taking this up with you, Will! The Judge Advocate thought
you were participating in a conspiracy to cover up the truth. Now, what
the hell is going on here, Will? Why did that mutiny happen? Why is
Pressman so determined to find your ship twelve years later? 
RIKER: I've said all I can. I am under direct orders from Admiral
Pressman not to discuss this, sir. 
PICARD: Very well. He's an admiral, I'm a captain. I cannot force you
to disobey his orders. Therefore I will have to remain in the dark on
this mission. And I will just have to trust that you will not let
Pressman put this ship at unnecessary risk. And if I find that that
trust has been misplaced, then I will have to re-evaluate the command
structure of this ship. Dismissed.

[Ready room]

BLACKWELL [on monitor]: Captain, Starfleet places
the highest priority on the success of this mission. Your request for a
delay is denied. 
PICARD: Margaret, something's very wrong here. Do you know what's going
on? 
BLACKWELL [on monitor]: I know that the Chief of Starfleet Intelligence
herself is watching this one, Jean-Luc. So you'd be well advised to
follow Pressman's orders and leave it at that. Starfleet out. 
WORF [OC]: Worf to Captain Picard. We are approaching asteroid gamma
six zero one, sir. 
PICARD: On my way.

