GATES RIKER WORF PICARD PRESSMAN SIROL DATA

[Bridge]

PICARD: Mister Worf, where are the Romulans? 
WORF: They are out of sensor range on the far side of the system. 
PICARD: Take us to within fifteen kilometres of the asteroid and hold
that position. 
WORF: Aye, sir. 
PICARD: Mister Data, report. 
DATA: For the past several hours, I have been scanning the area where
we detected the resonance signature of the Pegasus. From the strength
and polarity of the signature, it would appear that most of the warp
core is still intact. 
PRESSMAN: If we're lucky, the entire engineering section could be down
there. 
RIKER: But how do we get to it? I wouldn't want to try to transport
through that much solid rock. 
PICARD: Agreed. What about a shuttle? We could send it down through one
of these fissures. 
DATA: I would recommend against it, sir. There may be gravimetric or
magnetic fluctuations inside the asteroid which would overpower the
engines of a shuttlecraft. 
PRESSMAN: Sounds like the best solution is to take the Enterprise in. 
RIKER: Into the asteroid? 
PRESSMAN: That's right. Put this fissure on the main viewer. This chasm
is large enough for us to manoeuvre in. Besides, if we ever hope to
salvage the Pegasus, we're going to need a starship to do it. 
PICARD: Mister Data? 
DATA: It is theoretically possible, sir, but I am unaware of any prior
situations where a starship was taken so deeply inside a planetary
body. There may be unforeseen difficulties. 
PICARD: Admiral, I don't think we can risk 
PRESSMAN: I've made my decision. Prepare to take the Enterprise in,
Captain. That's an order. 
PICARD: Mister Data, will you please note in the ship's log that this
action is being taken over my explicit objections. 
DATA: It is so noted, sir. 
PICARD: Yellow Alert. 
RIKER: Shields up. Inertial dampers at maximum. 
PICARD: Ensign Gates, plot a course into the chasm, manoeuvring
thrusters only. 
GATES: Course plotted, sir. 
PICARD: Take us in. 
(Enterprise gently navigates the tunnel) 
DATA: We are now two kilometres beneath the surface. 
(shake) 
WORF: Captain, we are encountering shifts in the magnetic field
density. 
PICARD: Admiral, if is passage narrows to less than five hundred
metres, I will abort the mission. You can charge me with
insubordination if you wish, but I'm not going to risk the Enterprise
for a salvage operation. 
WORF: Captain, I am reading a large resonance signature directly ahead.

(NCC53847 is sticking out of the rock) 
PRESSMAN: Pegasus. 
RIKER: What the hell happened? 
DATA: Sensors show that the ship is still intact. However, sixty five
percent of it is contained within the asteroid. 
RIKER: It looks if half the ship materialised inside solid rock. 
DATA: Yes, sir. I do not understand how this could have happened. 
PRESSMAN: Let's keep the speculation to a minimum. We have to begin the
salvage operation. The equipment we need was in main Engineering. Can
you scan that section of the Pegasus? 
DATA: The starboard bulkhead of main Engineering is contained within
the rock face, but most of its compartment is still intact. 
WORF: There is a hull breach in that section. 
PICARD: If we begin a power transfer, can we restore life support
systems to that compartment? 
DATA: I believe so, sir. The breach can be temporarily sealed by
extending our shields. 
PRESSMAN: See to it. Once you've restored life support, Commander Riker
and I will beam directly into Engineering. 
PICARD: Admiral, I would like to send down a complete away team 
PRESSMAN: There's some very sensitive equipment over there. I don't
want anyone else near it. 
PICARD: Yes, sir.

[Pegasus Engineering]

(one of the bulkheads is rock and there are bodies
around) 
PRESSMAN: This room was open to space for twelve years. 
RIKER: Vacuum preserved everything. 
(Pressman switches on the lights) 
RIKER: I wonder how many of the crew are buried back there. 
PRESSMAN: We're not here for a memorial service. (he opens a panel)
It's still intact. What's the matter, Will? Don't you understand? We've
found it. 
RIKER: I know. I kept hoping it wouldn't be here. That it had been
destroyed or that it was buried in that rock back there. 
PRESSMAN: What the hell is that supposed to mean? 
RIKER: It means that I can't put this off any longer. Right up until
this moment I had the luxury of time, but now I've got to make a
choice. And, Admiral, I'm afraid my choice is this. I can't let you
start these experiments again. It was wrong twelve years ago, and it is
wrong today. 
PRESSMAN: You had better reconsider that position, Commander. We have a
mission to accomplish and you're going to carry it out. 
RIKER: That's all you care about, starting these damn experiments
again. Look around. This room is filled with dead bodies. These people
died because of this thing. 
PRESSMAN: Keep your self-righteous comments to yourself. I knew most of
these people a lot longer than you did. Yes, it was tragic, but it was
their fault. 
RIKER: You don't know that. Neither of us knows what happened after we
left. 
PRESSMAN: Well, it's not hard to guess. They tried to shut down an
experiment they didn't understand. Something went wrong and it killed
them. 
RIKER: No. We killed them. 
PRESSMAN: Now that doesn't sound like the same man who grabbed a phaser
and defended his captain twelve years ago. 
RIKER: I've had twelve years to think about it, and if I had it to do
over again I would have grabbed the phaser and pointed it at you
instead of them. 
PRESSMAN: So on reflection you'd rather be a traitor than a hero. 
RIKER: I wasn't a hero and neither were you. What you did was wrong and
I was wrong to support you, but I was just too young and too stupid to
realise it. You were the captain. I was the ensign. I was just
following orders. 
PRESSMAN: And if you hadn't you'd be dead right now along with all the
rest of them. Dead because you listened to a bunch of mutinous cowards
who were too blinded by fear to see what I was trying to do. 
RIKER: They were brave enough to risk their lives to stop you from
violating a treaty the Federation signed in good faith. 
PRESSMAN: That treaty has bound our hands and given the Romulans a
tactical advantage for the last sixty years. I was simply trying to
level the playing field. 
RIKER: And now you want to try it again? How many people will die this
time? Fifty? A hundred? A thousand? 
PRESSMAN: All right, you don't want to help me? Fine. But you are still
under my direct orders not to talk about what you know and I expect you
to follow those orders to the letter. I made you, mister, and I can
break you just as easily. Do you understand me, Commander? 
(the ship shakes) 
PICARD [OC]: Picard to away team. Prepare to return to the ship
immediately. 
PRESSMAN: Stand by, Enterprise. 
(he gets the device out) 
PRESSMAN: Pressman to Enterprise. Two people and one piece of equipment
to beam up.

[Bridge]

PRESSMAN: Report. 
PICARD: The Romulans have destroyed the entrance to the chasm with
their disruptors. They've sealed us in. 
WORF: Sir, there is an incoming message. It is from the warbird. 
PICARD: On screen. 
WORF: Aye, sir. 
SIROL [on viewscreen]: Captain, you seem to be in a very unfortunate
circumstance. How can we help? 
PICARD: Are you responsible for this? 
SIROL [on viewscreen]: I'm not sure. We were conducting some geological
experiments on the surface of the asteroid. It is entirely possible
that we accidently sealed you in. If only we had known you were beneath
the surface, if you had shared your plans with us, this might have been
avoided. 
PICARD: What do you want, Sirol? 
SIROL [on viewscreen]: I don't want anything, Captain, but I will offer
to help you. 
PICARD: How? 
SIROL [on viewscreen]: By transporting your crew aboard my ship. We'll
take you back to Romulus where, after a short stay as our guests, you
will be returned to the Federation. 
PICARD: Thank you for your generous offer. I will take it under
advisement. 
SIROL [on viewscreen]: As you wish. We will be continuing our research
in this system for a while longer. I await your decision. 
(transmission ends) 
PRESSMAN: We can't do it. If we abandon the Enterprise they'll come
back here and get their hands on both ships. 
PICARD: Agreed. Options? 
WORF: Captain, I believe we could use the phasers to cut our way out. 
DATA: The asteroid's internal structure is highly unstable. Any attempt
to cut through the rock could cause the entire chasm to collapse. 
RIKER: Captain, I have a suggestion. There's a piece of equipment in
Admiral Pressman's quarters under guard which might get us out of here.
It's a prototype for a Federation cloaking device. 
PRESSMAN: You just ended your career, Will. 
PICARD: That's what it's all about. A cloaking device. In the Treaty of
Algeron the Federation specifically agreed not to develop cloaking
technology. 
PRESSMAN: And that treaty is the biggest mistake we ever made. It's
kept us from exploiting a vital area of defence. 
PICARD: That treaty has kept us in peace for sixty years, and as a
Starfleet officer, you're supposed to uphold it. 
PRESSMAN: Now that's enough. I'm taking command of this vessel. Mister
Worf, escort the Captain to his quarters. 
(Worf folds his arms) 
RIKER: I don't think anyone's going to come to your defence this time. 
PICARD: How do we use the cloak to escape from the asteroid? 
RIKER: It's more than just a cloak. It changes the structure of matter.
In theory, a ship using this device could pass through normal matter. 
PICARD: I see why you were so eager to find it. 
PRESSMAN: Can't you see the potential here? The phasing cloak could be
the greatest breakthrough in weapons research in the last fifty years. 
PICARD: Except it's illegal. It's in violation of an agreement that the
Federation signed in good faith. 
RIKER: Captain, I think we could adapt the cloak for the Enterprise. 
PICARD: Mister Data? 
DATA: Theoretically it is possible, sir. But it would take several
hours to study the device and determine how to link it to our systems. 
PICARD: Make it so.

Captain's log, stardate 47457.1. We have been
trapped inside the asteroid for over eight hours. Mister Data and
Commander La Forge inform me that they are nearly ready to engage the
cloak.

