RIKER LAFORGE WORF PICARD PRESSMAN CRUSHER DATA
main good patient jabbed uniform bring plan sense honest

[Sickbay]

(Riker is in a martial arts robe) 
CRUSHER: What's wrong? 
RIKER: I think I busted a rib. 
CRUSHER: (to patient) Excuse me. What were you doing? 
RIKER: I was doing bat'leth moves with Mister Worf. I jabbed when I
should've blocked. He caught me right in the side. It's a good thing we
were using sticks instead of the real blades. 
CRUSHER: It's broken all right. Give him ten cc's of terakine for the
pain. 
RIKER: I can't believe how stupid I was. 
CRUSHER: You both must have got a little carried away, that's all. 
RIKER: No, it was my fault. I got distracted at a crucial moment. 
CRUSHER: It can happen to anyone. 
RIKER: I knew what I was supposed to do and I didn't do it. If those
had real bat'leths I might be dead right now. 
CRUSHER: There, all better. Will, it's all right. You made a mistake.
No harm done. You'll be better next time. 
RIKER: Yeah, maybe.

[Bridge]

DATA: Scan of grid one five seven is complete. I am
moving to grid one five eight. 
WORF: The Romulan warship is still searching grid two seven zero. 
RIKER: They're sure spending a lot of time over there. I wonder if they

LAFORGE: Commander, I think we might have just struck paydirt. There's
a subspace resonance signature coming from that asteroid. From the
frequency variances, it looks like the pattern from a Federation warp
core. 
RIKER: Captain Picard to the Bridge. Take us to within ten kilometres
of asteroid gamma six zero one. 
(Picard and Pressman enter) 
RIKER: Geordi's found something. 
LAFORGE: There's a subspace resonance signature coming from that
asteroid, sir. It could be the warp core of the Pegasus. 
PRESSMAN: I think he's right. I recognise some of the variance
patterns. 
PICARD: Put the asteroid on the main viewscreen. 
DATA: I have confirmed Geordi's readings. The resonance signature is
originating from somewhere beneath the asteroid's surface. 
PRESSMAN: Beneath the surface? How's that possible? 
DATA: This asteroid contains several deep chasms large enough for a
starship to enter. It is possible the Pegasus drifted into the
asteroid's gravitational field and was pulled down into one of the
fissures. 
WORF: Sir, the Romulan warbird has altered course once again. They are
heading toward our position. 
RIKER: They probably want to see what we're so interested in over here.

PICARD: Mister Data, how long will it take to determine the exact
location of the Pegasus? 
DATA: At least another six hours, sir. 
PRESSMAN: That's too long. If the Romulans start searching the
asteroid, they could find the ship before we do. 
RIKER: I recommend we destroy the asteroid. It would take most of our
photon torpedoes, but it would preclude any possibility of the Pegasus
falling into Romulan hands. 
PRESSMAN: Our top priority is to salvage the ship, Commander. I'll
consider destroying it only as a last resort. 
RIKER: Yes, sir. 
PRESSMAN: Captain, could you give me a third alternative? 
PICARD: Mister Data, would it possible to saturate the asteroid with
verteron particles that could mask the resonance signature and prevent
the Romulans from detecting it? 
DATA: In order for the deception to succeed, it would have to appear to
be a natural phenomenon. Verteron particles are artificial in nature. 
LAFORGE: Wait a minute. We could blanket the asteroid with high levels
of ionising radiation. There's so much of it in the system already, the
Romulans won't know the difference. 
PICARD: Mister Data? 
DATA: Theoretically, sir, it should work. 
RIKER: If we do this, we have to do it fast the Romulans will be within
sensor range in less than a minute. 
PICARD: Make it so, Mister Data. 
DATA: Aye, sir. Initiating ionisation field pulse. 
PICARD: When he's finished we'll have to move away and make it look
like we've scanned the asteroid but haven't find anything. 
RIKER: Lay in a course for the next search grid. Stand by to engage. 
PICARD: If it works, the Romulans won't find anything and we can return
later. If it doesn't 
PRESSMAN: If it doesn't work, we'll have handed them the Pegasus. 
DATA: Ionisation pulse complete. 
PICARD: Helm, one quarter impulse. Engage. 
DATA: The Romulans are initiating a tachyon scan of the asteroid. They
have switched to their lateral sensor array. Beginning another scan. 
RIKER: They're certainly being thorough. 
DATA: The warbird has completed its sensor sweep. 
PRESSMAN: If they found the resonance signature, they should be sending
away teams any second. 
DATA: They are moving out. 
PICARD: Mister Data, we must convince the Romulans that we're still
looking for the Pegasus. I want you to continue scanning this system. 
DATA: Yes, sir. 
PICARD: I want to be back at this asteroid at oh eight hundred hours
tomorrow. Plan your search pattern accordingly. 
RIKER: Aye, sir. 
PICARD: Admiral, would you care to join me for some late dinner? 
PRESSMAN: Please excuse me, Captain, but I think I'd better turn in
early. 
PICARD: You have the Bridge, Number One. Oh, and will you bring the
scan analysis to my quarters when you're off watch? 
RIKER: Aye, sir. 
(Picard leaves) 
RIKER: Initiate search of grid one six three. 
DATA: Beginning sensor sweeps. 
PRESSMAN: Commander, I want to see you in the Captain's Ready room. 
RIKER: Mister Data, you have the Bridge. 
DATA: Aye, sir.

[Ready room]

PRESSMAN: What the hell is the matter with you?
Destroy the Pegasus before we've even taken a look at it? 
RIKER: I thought it was more important that the Romulans 
PRESSMAN: Well, you were wrong! We have a chance here to change the
balance of power in this quadrant, but we can't very well do that if we
destroy the Pegasus, now can we? 
RIKER: No, sir. 
PRESSMAN: It hasn't been easy for you I'm sure, keeping your Captain
and friends in the dark like this. 
RIKER: I haven't enjoyed it, if that's what you mean. 
PRESSMAN: I hope you understand that it's necessary. 
RIKER: I understand that you think it's necessary. 
PRESSMAN: You have changed. 
RIKER: Changed? 
PRESSMAN: Something the Captain and I were talking about. To be honest
I'm glad to see this kind of change in you, Will. State your opinion
and stand by it. It's a far cry from the young man who used to sit at
my helm and worry about pressing the wrong button. 
RIKER: A lot of things can change in twelve years, Admiral. 
PRESSMAN: Yes, they can. But it's important that a man changes the
right things in his life, not his sense of duty, not his sense of
loyalty. 
RIKER: I'd like to think that I haven't changed those things, sir. 
PRESSMAN: I would like to think that too. Because those things say more
about a man than the rank on his collar or the
uniform he wears. They define him. Twelve years ago, a lot of older and
more seasoned officers turned away from their duty, but you stood up
for what was right. I'm sorry, Will. I know the kind of man you are. I
know that I can count on you again.

