PICARD RIKER PRESSMAN CRUSHER

[Ten Forward]

PRESSMAN: How long have you had that beard? 
RIKER: About four years. I got tired of hearing how young I looked. 
PRESSMAN: What was it that Lieutenant Boylen used to call you? 
RIKER: Ensign Babyface. 
PRESSMAN: You never did have much of a sense of humour. 
RIKER: I like to think that I've lightened up a little in my old age. 
PRESSMAN: Really? 
RIKER: I've been known to tell a joke or two. 
PRESSMAN: Well, it's about time. You were always so serious on the
Pegasus. 
RIKER: We went through some serious times. Do you really think we're
going to find the Pegasus again? 
PRESSMAN: I wouldn't have come all the way out here if I didn't. 
RIKER: What about the experiment? Do you think we're going to find that
too? 
PRESSMAN: Maybe. 
RIKER: I think a lot about what happened, especially on that last day. 
PRESSMAN: So do I. It's not the kind of thing you just forget. 
RIKER: Do you ever wonder if we did the right thing? 
PRESSMAN: Never. What happened was a tragedy, yes, but it wasn't your
fault and it wasn't mine. What we were doing was for the good of the
Federation, and we can't blame ourselves if the others couldn't see
that. 
RIKER: I know, but, maybe we went about it the wrong way. 
PRESSMAN: Well, this time we may have a chance to do it the right way.
If this mission is successful, if we find the Pegasus and the
experiment, we can finish what we started twelve years ago. 
RIKER: You want to try again? 
PRESSMAN: It's not just me, Will. The Chief of Starfleet Security has
personally given me her assurance of complete support. 
RIKER: Admiral Raner? How many other people know about this? 
PRESSMAN: Not many, and it's up to us to make sure it stays that way.
Raner has given me written orders for you. You'll find them coded in
the Enterprise computer. You've been instructed not to reveal the true
nature of our mission to anyone else, not even Captain Picard. Will,
don't worry. It won't be like it was twelve years ago. And this time,
no one's going to stop us.

 (for those who care about these things,
the travesty that was the 
Enterprise series finale takes place at some point from here
on in...)

[Picard's quarters]

(this area of space is strewn with rocky debris) 
PICARD: As a matter of fact, I never met Will until he reported on
board at Farpoint Station. 
PRESSMAN: You chose your first officer without ever meeting him? 
PICARD: I was looking through the records of about fifty candidates and
Will's was much like all the others, filled with lots of dry statistics
and glowing letters of recommendation that tell you nothing. I was
about to put it aside and look at another file and then something
caught my eye. There was an incident on Altair Three when Will was
First Officer of the Hood. He refused to let Captain DeSoto beam down
during a crisis. He disobeyed a direct order and he risked a general
court martial because he thought he was right. When I read that, I knew
that I had found my Number One. 
PRESSMAN: You wanted someone with a history of disobedience? 
PICARD: I wanted someone who would stand up to me. Someone who was more
concerned with the safety of the ship and accomplishing the mission
than with how something looked on his record. To me, that's one of the
marks of a good officer. 
PRESSMAN: Frankly, I've always felt it was more important for an
officer to trust his captain's judgment. In a crisis, there's no time
for explanations. Orders have to be obeyed without question or lives
may be lost. 
PICARD: I am aware of that, Admiral. 
PRESSMAN: Of course you are. I guess this mission has brought up some
old ghosts for me. You know what it's like to lose a ship. You're
always wondering if there was something else you should have done,
something you missed. 
PICARD: Admiral, the record regarding the loss of the Pegasus is a bit
vague from the moment just before you abandoned ship. Is there anything
that you can add to the official account? 
PRESSMAN: I'm afraid not. But I can tell you this. Twelve years ago, I
needed an officer that I could count on in a crisis. Someone who would
support and obey my decisions without question. Someone who was willing
to trust my judgment. And that someone was Will Riker. Without his
loyalty, none of us would have survived.

[Sickbay]

(Riker is in a martial arts robe) 
CRUSHER: What's wrong? 
RIKER: I think I busted a rib. 
CRUSHER: (to patient) Excuse me. What were you doing? 
RIKER: I was doing bat'leth moves with Mister Worf. I jabbed when I
should've blocked. He caught me right in the side. It's a good thing we
were using sticks instead of the real blades. 
CRUSHER: It's broken all right. Give him ten cc's of terakine for the
pain. 
RIKER: I can't believe how stupid I was. 
CRUSHER: You both must have got a little carried away, that's all. 
RIKER: No, it was my fault. I got distracted at a crucial moment. 
CRUSHER: It can happen to anyone. 
RIKER: I knew what I was supposed to do and I didn't do it. If those
had real bat'leths I might be dead right now. 
CRUSHER: There, all better. Will, it's all right. You made a mistake.
No harm done. You'll be better next time. 
RIKER: Yeah, maybe.

