RIKER LAFORGE WORF PICARD PRESSMAN SIROL [on viewscreen] DATA
heard pleasant start survey board directly wasn need matter

[Observation lounge]

PRESSMAN: As you know, the starship Pegasus was
lost in this sector some twelve years ago along with most of its crew.
I was the captain and Commander Riker here was my helmsman. 
PICARD: I remember hearing about it. The ship was destroyed by a warp
core breach as I recall. 
RIKER: The Captain and I, along with seven others managed to get to the
escape pod before the breach became critical. 
PRESSMAN: From space, we saw what appeared to be a matter-antimatter
explosion which vaporised the ship. 
RIKER: No wreckage was found, so Starfleet officially declared the ship
destroyed. 
PRESSMAN: However, all that changed three days ago. Starfleet
Intelligence has an operative in Romulan High Command. He sent us a
message that a Romulan warbird had located a piece of debris in the
Devolin system which was positively identified as being from the
Pegasus. The warbird was then ordered to locate the rest of the ship,
if possible, and retrieve it. 
LAFORGE: What would the Romulans want with pieces of a twelve year old
starship? 
PRESSMAN: The Pegasus was a prototype. Experimental engine, new weapon
systems. In fact, some of our designs were used in constructing the
Enterprise. There are a lot of things on board the Romulans would love
to get their hands on. 
PICARD: What are our orders? 
PRESSMAN: To find the ship before the Romulans do. Salvage it if
possible, destroy it if necessary. You command the Enterprise while I
remain in command of the overall mission. 
LAFORGE: We'll need metallurgical and chromographic specs on the
Pegasus in order to set up the proper search parameters. 
PRESSMAN: I'll make the appropriate information available to you. 
PICARD: Very well. Lay in a course for the Devolin system. 
RIKER: Aye, sir.

[Bridge]

DATA: Captain, we are approaching the Devolin
system. 
PICARD: Any sign of the Romulans? 
DATA: No, sir. 
PRESSMAN: Oh, they're out there. They're just waiting to see what
you're going to do. 
PICARD: Mister La Forge? 
LAFORGE: There's an awful lot of ionising radiation in this system,
Captain. That and the sheer amount of rock is going to slow down our
search a little. 
PICARD: How slow? 
LAFORGE: I'd say at least 
WORF: Sir, Romulan warbird decloaking directly ahead. 
WORF: They are powering weapons. 
RIKER: Shields up. Red alert. Prepare phasers. 
WORF: Sir, they are hailing us. 
PICARD: On screen. 
SIROL [on viewscreen]: I am Commander Sirol of the Romulan vessel
Terix. To whom do I have the honour of speaking? 
PICARD: I am Captain Jean-Luc Picard of the Federation starship
Enterprise. 
SIROL [on viewscreen]: Captain Picard. I've heard so much about you. A
pleasure to make your acquaintance. I hope our sudden appearance didn't
startle you. 
PICARD: Not at all. But your unannounced appearance might have
unfortunate consequences. It would be an awful shame if your ship were
damaged due to some misunderstanding. 
SIROL [on viewscreen]: I am touched by your concern for my ship, but I
doubt we were ever in any danger. May I ask what you are doing in this
system? 
PICARD: I might ask you the same question. 
SIROL [on viewscreen]: We are conducting a survey of gaseous anomalies.

PICARD: How interesting. So are we. Perhaps we could combine our
efforts and share our findings. 
SIROL [on viewscreen]: I doubt our objectives are compatible. 
PICARD: Perhaps you're right. 
SIROL [on viewscreen]: This has been a most pleasant conversation, but
we must return to our research. 
PICARD: Then I won't keep you. 
(transmission ends) 
WORF: Sir, they are moving off, resuming their tachyon scans of the
system. 
PICARD: Stand down Red alert, but keep tracking their movement,
Lieutenant. 
WORF: Aye, sir. 
PICARD: Commander, how long will it take us to search this system? 
LAFORGE: At least seven days, sir. 
WORF: And the Romulans have a two day head start. 
PICARD: Then let's get to it. Mister Data? 
DATA: Initiating sensor sweep of grid zero one.

[Ten Forward]

PRESSMAN: How long have you had that beard? 
RIKER: About four years. I got tired of hearing how young I looked. 
PRESSMAN: What was it that Lieutenant Boylen used to call you? 
RIKER: Ensign Babyface. 
PRESSMAN: You never did have much of a sense of humour. 
RIKER: I like to think that I've lightened up a little in my old age. 
PRESSMAN: Really? 
RIKER: I've been known to tell a joke or two. 
PRESSMAN: Well, it's about time. You were always so serious on the
Pegasus. 
RIKER: We went through some serious times. Do you really think we're
going to find the Pegasus again? 
PRESSMAN: I wouldn't have come all the way out here if I didn't. 
RIKER: What about the experiment? Do you think we're going to find that
too? 
PRESSMAN: Maybe. 
RIKER: I think a lot about what happened, especially on that last day. 
PRESSMAN: So do I. It's not the kind of thing you just forget. 
RIKER: Do you ever wonder if we did the right thing? 
PRESSMAN: Never. What happened was a tragedy, yes, but it wasn't your
fault and it wasn't mine. What we were doing was for the good of the
Federation, and we can't blame ourselves if the others couldn't see
that. 
RIKER: I know, but, maybe we went about it the wrong way. 
PRESSMAN: Well, this time we may have a chance to do it the right way.
If this mission is successful, if we find the Pegasus and the
experiment, we can finish what we started twelve years ago. 
RIKER: You want to try again? 
PRESSMAN: It's not just me, Will. The Chief of Starfleet Security has
personally given me her assurance of complete support. 
RIKER: Admiral Raner? How many other people know about this? 
PRESSMAN: Not many, and it's up to us to make sure it stays that way.
Raner has given me written orders for you. You'll find them coded in
the Enterprise computer. You've been instructed not to reveal the true
nature of our mission to anyone else, not even Captain Picard. Will,
don't worry. It won't be like it was twelve years ago. And this time,
no one's going to stop us.

 (for those who care about these things,
the travesty that was the 
Enterprise series finale takes place at some point from here
on in...)

