NIKOLAI LAFORGE WORF PICARD CRUSHER DATA
accompany room parameters question thinking disgraced storms simple systems

[Turbolift]

WORF: Bridge. 
NIKOLAI: It's a simple plan, really. That's the beauty of it. Worf,
trust me. This is going to work. 
WORF: Trust you? You never had any intention of obeying the Captain. 
NIKOLAI: I wasn't going to let those people die just because your
Captain started quoting Federation dogma to me. 
WORF: Your duty was to respect the Captain's orders and to uphold the
Prime Directive. 
NIKOLAI: Duty. That's all that really matters to you, isn't it? Well, I
refuse to be bound by an abstraction. The lives of the people of Boraal
are far more important to me. You worry too much, Worf. You always did.
Everything will work out. 
WORF: You have disgraced yourself and you have disgraced me. I want
nothing more to do with you.

[Ready room]

PICARD: You realise your career is finished. 
NIKOLAI: I know that, Captain, and I would do it all again. 
PICARD: What do you expect us to do now? You have left us with a colony
of Boraalans who think they're still on their planet. 
NIKOLAI: I didn't beam them up without a plan. I've given this a lot of
thought. I think we can find a new planet, an M class world, that can
be their new home. 
PICARD: A home which would look very different from Boraal. You can't
really believe that they'll be fooled. 
NIKOLAI: That's where the holodeck comes in. I'll go back and tell the
Boraalans we're going on a journey, to a different place where they'll
be safe from the storms. The holodeck can gradually change the terrain
as we travel, so that at the end, the holodeck simulation will match
the conditions on the new planet. Then we'll simply beam them down. 
PICARD: What if it doesn't work? What if they become aware that
something strange is going on? 
NIKOLAI: Captain, I can't prepare for every contingency, but I assure
you I'm accustomed to thinking on my feet. I'll deal with the situation
as it evolves. 
PICARD: I'm not enthusiastic about this plan, but I don't see that we
have another option. Very well, let's give it a try. 
NIKOLAI: Thank you, Captain.

[Stellar cartography]

CRUSHER: There are countless M class planets in
Federation space which can support the Boraalans. We need to narrow the
parameters. 
DATA: It will take approximately nine and one half hours to complete
the analysis. 
PICARD: Even then there's no guarantee that we'll find a suitable
planet. 
DATA: That is correct, sir. 
LAFORGE: Captain, you'd better take a look at this. 
PICARD: What is it? 
LAFORGE: We've got a problem, sir. I don't think it's going to be
possible to keep this holodeck simulation stable. 
PICARD: Why not? 
LAFORGE: The plasmonic energy surges from the planet are affecting the
ship's systems. We're having problems with the EPS systems and the
power distribution matrix. 
NIKOLAI: And as a result, the holodeck imaging processor has been
severely destabilised. 
LAFORGE: It's not a question of whether the simulation will break down,
it's a question of when. 
PICARD: There's no way round it? 
LAFORGE: Not while it's running. In order to fix it, I'd have to shut
down all of the holodecks and re-initialise the entire system. 
PICARD: That will take hours. 
NIKOLAI: We'll just have to hope the simulation holds long enough. 
PICARD: Very well. Let's try it. Mister La Forge, I want you to monitor
the situation very carefully, and keep an open comm. link with the
Holodeck so as to be apprised of any problems. 
LAFORGE: Aye, sir. 
NIKOLAI: Captain, I'll return to the holodeck as soon as my surgical
alterations are completed and I'll prepare the Boraalans for their
journey. 
PICARD: Considering the situation you have put us in, I don't think
it's wise to leave you alone with those people. Mister Worf will
accompany you. 
WORF: Sir, perhaps someone else would be a better choice. Counsellor
Troi is familiar with 
PICARD: Mister Worf, the Boraalans already know you. There's no need to
introduce them to anyone new. 
WORF: Aye, sir. 
(Nikolai leaves) 
PICARD: Keep a close eye on your brother. I don't want him making this
situation worse than it is.

