VORIN KATERAS NIKOLAI WORF DOBARA
postponed supply doing certain away better survive voice told

[Passageway]

(Worf beams into an underground cavern complex and
starts scanning) 
VORIN: What are you doing here? You're not from our village. Who are
you? 
KATERAS: (old man) Who is this? 
WORF: My name is Worf. I am a traveller. 
VORIN: How did you survive the storms? 
NIKOLAI: (a thick-set man) I would know that voice anywhere. Worf, is
it really you? It's good to see you. You've changed a lot in four
years. 
WORF: Nikolai? 
NIKOLAI: Yes. Oh, Worf. This is my brother, Worf. He's come to help us.

[Cavern]

(main living area with campfire and water supply) 
VORIN: But if you were able to get here, the storms must have subsided.

WORF: Please. 
VORIN: Do you think it's safe enough to return to the surface? 
WORF: Please, I must speak to my brother. 
(they move away from the locals) 
WORF: Nikolai, what have you done? 
NIKOLAI: They were dying. I refused to sit there safe in that
observation post and watch it happen. I set up a deflector shield to
screen these caves from the radiation and then I brought them here. 
WORF: What did you tell them? 
NIKOLAI: They think I'm a Boraalan. I told them I was from another
village far from here. 
WORF: At least you had that much sense. 
NIKOLAI: When I sent the distress call I knew the Enterprise was in
this sector, but I wasn't sure you'd be the one to come. I'm so glad
that you're here, Worf. 
WORF: Nikolai, there is nothing we can do for these people. You have
only postponed their deaths. 
NIKOLAI: I want to discuss that with your Captain. 
WORF: And I am certain he will want to speak with you. 
NIKOLAI: Friends, my brother and I must go back to the surface. He has
provisions and will need help bringing them here. We'll return shortly.

DOBARA: (or Cassidy Yates for DS9 fans) It's too dangerous.
The storms can occur without warning. If you're caught in one. 
NIKOLAI: Don't worry. Worf is a seer. He understands the nature of the
storms. He'll know when it's safe to travel. 
WORF: Yes, that is correct. 
KATERAS: Our seer died when the storms first came. We've been without
his guidance for many weeks. 
VORIN: Let me go with you. I know the terrain better than anyone and I
can help. 
NIKOLAI: No, Vorin. Worf and I will be safe. We'll return shortly.

