WORF [OC] NIKOLAI KATERAS WORF LAFORGE
saying group things coming engineering accused new seen true

[Holodeck planet surface]

(the group are travelling in sunlight along a rock
face) 
NIKOLAI: Dobara, you go on ahead. 
WORF: I will carry your pack. Go and join the others. 
KATERAS: Thank you, seer. 
NIKOLAI: It'll be dark soon, in a few hours. Would you ask Mister La
Forge to create a suitable campsite for us a few kilometres from here?
What's wrong? 
WORF: Vorin has left the holodeck. 
NIKOLAI: How did he get out? 
WORF: I do not know, but Doctor Crusher cannot erase his memory. 
NIKOLAI: What will they do with him? 
WORF: They have explained the situation to him. He must make his own
decisions. 
NIKOLAI: Wait. Are you saying that if Vorin wants to come back in here,
they'll let him? 
WORF: That is right. He is not a prisoner. 
NIKOLAI: But if he comes back here and tells the others what he has
seen on the Enterprise, everything we have done will be for nothing. 
WORF: Then you should have considered that before you beamed them on
board. But you never think about the consequences of your acts. 
NIKOLAI: If you mean by that that I'm willing to do something while
others hesitate, that's true. 
WORF: Wherever you go, you create chaos. How many times did our parents
lie awake at night, wondering what kind of trouble you were in? 
NIKOLAI: Oh, if only I could have been like you. Worf, the perfect son.

WORF: I was not perfect, but I was not wild and disobedient. 
NIKOLAI: Of course not. You were too busy doing your duty. 
WORF: I would rather be accused of that than making our mother weep.
But I see it is clear you have no intention of changing. I see no
reason to discuss it further. 
[Holodeck campsite]

WORF: Commander, the holodeck malfunctions 
[Engineering]

WORF [OC]: Are increasing. 
LAFORGE: I'm running every stabilisation routine I know. 
WORF [OC]: How much longer till we reach the new planet? 
LAFORGE: We'll be there in less than eight hours. You're just going to
have to hold things together a little while longer. 
WORF [OC]: Someone is coming. 
