GATES NIKOLAI WORF PICARD TROI RIKER CRUSHER DATA
seven logs provide accelerated past visual survive sworn uplink

[Observation lounge]

(Worf and Nikolai are back to their normal
appearances) 
PICARD: Doctor, you were fully aware that the atmospheric dissipation
could not be stopped. What did you hope to accomplish by assisting
these people? 
NIKOLAI: I was trying to give them a future. What I propose is we
create an atmospheric shield on the planet. We can camouflage the
equipment just as was done with my observation post. No one will ever
know it's there. 
RIKER: You can't be serious. 
NIKOLAI: Indeed I am. I realise it will only provide atmosphere for a
limited area on the surface, but it will be enough to save one village.

PICARD: I have no intention of compounding what you have done by
committing another gross violation of the Prime Directive. 
NIKOLAI: Captain, the Boraalans have a rich and beautiful culture, a
deep spiritual life. They deserve the chance to survive.
And isn't that what the Prime Directive was truly intended to do, to
allow cultures to survive and grow naturally? 
TROI: Not entirely. The Prime Directive was designed to ensure
non-interference. 
CRUSHER: But aren't we interfering either way? If we take no action,
it's a conscious decision to let the Boraalans die. 
NIKOLAI: Exactly. We have the power to save some of them. All we have
to do is exercise it. 
PICARD: We are sworn to uphold the principle of the Prime Directive,
and until that is changed there is no further course of action that we
can take. Is that understood? 
NIKOLAI: Some of my log recorders are still in my observation post.
They contain most of my research. Since it appears that the only way
I'm going to preserve Boraalan culture is in a museum, I request
permission to return to the surface and retrieve them. 
PICARD: I'm afraid that won't be possible. But you can have full use of
the ship's computer to set up a comm. link and upload your data from
here. If there's nothing further, you're dismissed. 
(all leave except Nikolai and Worf) 
WORF: I'm sorry, Nikolai. I wish there were another way. I am quite
familiar with your communications systems. If you like, I will help you
set up your comm. link. 
NIKOLAI: I'll do it myself.

[Bridge]

DATA: Captain, atmospheric dissipation has
accelerated over the past several hours. I estimate the planet's
atmosphere will be completely gone within three minutes. 
NIKOLAI: Captain, I've completed my data uplink. With your permission,
I would like to integrate my research logs with the ship's library
computer. 
PICARD: Of course. 
DATA: The mesosphere is gone. Plasmonic reactions are now beginning to
break down the troposphere. 
PICARD: Put it on screen. 
(viewscreen goes out) 
PICARD: What's going on? 
DATA: It appears the plasmonic reactions are continuing to interfere
with our sensors. 
RIKER: I thought you had compensated for that. 
DATA: I had, sir. I will attempt to engage additional filtering
elements. Visual re-established. 
PICARD: This is one of those times when we must face the ramifications
of the Prime Directive and honour those lives which we cannot save. 
NIKOLAI: I find no honour in this whatsoever, Captain. You will forgive
me if I don't stay. 
(the atmosphere disappears) 
PICARD: You have the Bridge, Number One. 
(Picard leaves) 
RIKER: Helm, take us out of orbit. Set a course for Starbase eighty
seven, warp five. 
GATES: Aye, sir. 
(a science station blows up) 
RIKER: What happened? 
DATA: There appears to be an unusual power drain in the EPS
distribution net. 
RIKER: What's the source? 
DATA: Unknown, sir. It is difficult to localize. 
WORF: The power drain has registered on my security grid as well, sir.
It appears to be coming from deck ten. 
RIKER: All right, Mister Worf, get a security team on it.

