TROI WORF PICARD KATERAS NIKOLAI DOBARA VORIN RIKER CRUSHER

[Cavern]

(main living area with campfire and water supply) 
VORIN: But if you were able to get here, the storms must have subsided.

WORF: Please. 
VORIN: Do you think it's safe enough to return to the surface? 
WORF: Please, I must speak to my brother. 
(they move away from the locals) 
WORF: Nikolai, what have you done? 
NIKOLAI: They were dying. I refused to sit there safe in that
observation post and watch it happen. I set up a deflector shield to
screen these caves from the radiation and then I brought them here. 
WORF: What did you tell them? 
NIKOLAI: They think I'm a Boraalan. I told them I was from another
village far from here. 
WORF: At least you had that much sense. 
NIKOLAI: When I sent the distress call I knew the Enterprise was in
this sector, but I wasn't sure you'd be the one to come. I'm so glad
that you're here, Worf. 
WORF: Nikolai, there is nothing we can do for these people. You have
only postponed their deaths. 
NIKOLAI: I want to discuss that with your Captain. 
WORF: And I am certain he will want to speak with you. 
NIKOLAI: Friends, my brother and I must go back to the surface. He has
provisions and will need help bringing them here. We'll return shortly.

DOBARA: (or Cassidy Yates for DS9 fans) It's too dangerous.
The storms can occur without warning. If you're caught in one. 
NIKOLAI: Don't worry. Worf is a seer. He understands the nature of the
storms. He'll know when it's safe to travel. 
WORF: Yes, that is correct. 
KATERAS: Our seer died when the storms first came. We've been without
his guidance for many weeks. 
VORIN: Let me go with you. I know the terrain better than anyone and I
can help. 
NIKOLAI: No, Vorin. Worf and I will be safe. We'll return shortly.

[Observation lounge]

(Worf and Nikolai are back to their normal
appearances) 
PICARD: Doctor, you were fully aware that the atmospheric dissipation
could not be stopped. What did you hope to accomplish by assisting
these people? 
NIKOLAI: I was trying to give them a future. What I propose is we
create an atmospheric shield on the planet. We can camouflage the
equipment just as was done with my observation post. No one will ever
know it's there. 
RIKER: You can't be serious. 
NIKOLAI: Indeed I am. I realise it will only provide atmosphere for a
limited area on the surface, but it will be enough to save one village.

PICARD: I have no intention of compounding what you have done by
committing another gross violation of the Prime Directive. 
NIKOLAI: Captain, the Boraalans have a rich and beautiful culture, a
deep spiritual life. They deserve the chance to survive.
And isn't that what the Prime Directive was truly intended to do, to
allow cultures to survive and grow naturally? 
TROI: Not entirely. The Prime Directive was designed to ensure
non-interference. 
CRUSHER: But aren't we interfering either way? If we take no action,
it's a conscious decision to let the Boraalans die. 
NIKOLAI: Exactly. We have the power to save some of them. All we have
to do is exercise it. 
PICARD: We are sworn to uphold the principle of the Prime Directive,
and until that is changed there is no further course of action that we
can take. Is that understood? 
NIKOLAI: Some of my log recorders are still in my observation post.
They contain most of my research. Since it appears that the only way
I'm going to preserve Boraalan culture is in a museum, I request
permission to return to the surface and retrieve them. 
PICARD: I'm afraid that won't be possible. But you can have full use of
the ship's computer to set up a comm. link and upload your data from
here. If there's nothing further, you're dismissed. 
(all leave except Nikolai and Worf) 
WORF: I'm sorry, Nikolai. I wish there were another way. I am quite
familiar with your communications systems. If you like, I will help you
set up your comm. link. 
NIKOLAI: I'll do it myself.

