GATES NIKOLAI WORF PICARD RIKER COMPUTER DATA
unusual engage atmospheric registered outside completely concentrate screen uplink

[Bridge]

DATA: Captain, atmospheric dissipation has
accelerated over the past several hours. I estimate the planet's
atmosphere will be completely gone within three minutes. 
NIKOLAI: Captain, I've completed my data uplink. With your permission,
I would like to integrate my research logs with the ship's library
computer. 
PICARD: Of course. 
DATA: The mesosphere is gone. Plasmonic reactions are now beginning to
break down the troposphere. 
PICARD: Put it on screen. 
(viewscreen goes out) 
PICARD: What's going on? 
DATA: It appears the plasmonic reactions are continuing to interfere
with our sensors. 
RIKER: I thought you had compensated for that. 
DATA: I had, sir. I will attempt to engage additional filtering
elements. Visual re-established. 
PICARD: This is one of those times when we must face the ramifications
of the Prime Directive and honour those lives which we cannot save. 
NIKOLAI: I find no honour in this whatsoever, Captain. You will forgive
me if I don't stay. 
(the atmosphere disappears) 
PICARD: You have the Bridge, Number One. 
(Picard leaves) 
RIKER: Helm, take us out of orbit. Set a course for Starbase eighty
seven, warp five. 
GATES: Aye, sir. 
(a science station blows up) 
RIKER: What happened? 
DATA: There appears to be an unusual power drain in the EPS
distribution net. 
RIKER: What's the source? 
DATA: Unknown, sir. It is difficult to localize. 
WORF: The power drain has registered on my security grid as well, sir.
It appears to be coming from deck ten. 
RIKER: All right, Mister Worf, get a security team on it.

[Corridor]

WORF: Concentrate your scans on the EPS transfer
links. 
(his security team split up, Worf ends up outside a holodeck) 
WORF: Computer, open holodeck five. 
COMPUTER: Unable to comply. Holodeck five is in use. 
WORF: Override. Authorisation, Worf theta six one nine. 
COMPUTER: Unable to comply. Holodeck control systems have been
bypassed. 
(then the doors open) 
NIKOLAI: Worf Come in. 
