NIKOLAI LAFORGE WORF PICARD CRUSHER DATA

[Engineering]

WORF [OC]: In a pool of water, the road ahead will
be filled with good fortune. 
LAFORGE: Hang in there, Worf. Give me just a second. There. That should
do it. 
[Holodeck Cavern]

(the pool stops flickering) 
NIKOLAI: You see? Our journey is already blessed. The road ahead is
long. Let us have a meal together, then we'll make preparations to
leave. 
(the people disperse) 
NIKOLAI: Worf, very good work. Apparently we don't make such a bad team
after all. 
WORF: We are not a team. I am here because Captain Picard ordered me
here. 
NIKOLAI: Worf, don't we both share the same goal? Aren't we both trying
to make this plan work? 
WORF: Only because you forced us into it. 
NIKOLAI: I'm not ashamed of what I did. I'm not sorry I saved their
lives. 
WORF: You have not changed. You still expect people to solve the
problems you create. 
NIKOLAI: I'm not here to work out the issues of our childhood. I'm here
to save a people who I care about. And if that upsets you, then so be
it.

[Stellar cartography]

DATA: These are the two planets which best match
our search criteria. Draygo Four features an unusually large temperate
zone. However, it is within three light years of Cardassian space. 
CRUSHER: There are constant border disputes in that sector. 
DATA: The alternative is Vacca Six. It is located in the Cabral sector.

CRUSHER: That's pretty isolated. 
DATA: It offers a less hospitable climate than the Boraalans are
accustomed to. However, it would still appear to be the better choice.
Do you disagree, Doctor? 
CRUSHER: No, Data, you're right. It's just that the enormity of what
we're doing is overwhelming. We are deciding the future of a species. 
DATA: It is a formidable responsibility. 
CRUSHER: There are so many questions we don't have answers to. What if
the climate is so different that it affects them in a way that we can't
anticipate? How do we even know they'll be able to survive? And if they
do, how will their society evolve and what impact will it have on the
Vaccan system? We have no idea what this decision will mean to their
future. 
DATA: Doctor, I do not believe we can offer any guarantees. We can
simply make the best choice we have at the moment. 
CRUSHER: All right, Data. Vacca Six it is. 
DATA: Data to Bridge. 
PICARD [OC]: Picard here. 
DATA: We have located a new home for the Boraalans, sir. 
