NIKOLAI LAFORGE WORF VORIN KATERAS TARRANA DOBARA

[Holodeck Cavern]

NIKOLAI: My friends, we have returned. We have
food. This is difficult to say, but you have a right to hear it. By the
time Worf and I had reached the surface, the village was gone. The
storms have destroyed everything. There is nothing for us to return to.

DOBARA: We can't survive in here. Our supplies won't last forever. 
NIKOLAI: That's why we must leave. There is a place far from here where
there are no storms. It will be a difficult journey, but in the end we
will have a new home. 
WORF: I know a way through the caves. We will travel safely until we
return to the surface. 
VORIN: Where is this new land? 
WORF: As we said, it is far from here. It will not be like the home you
knew. Even the stars may be different. 
VORIN: Why would they be different? And how do you know we'll be safe
there? 
NIKOLAI: My brother is a seer. If he says we'll be safe, you must trust
that we will be safe. 
(a scream) 
KATERAS: What's wrong? 
TARRANA: Look. 
(holodeck grid lines are flickering on and off in the pool) 
WORF: Do not worry. It is an omen. 
DOBARA: What does it mean? 
WORF: This is the sign of La Forge. It is a message to travellers. It
is said when these lines appear and disappear

[Engineering]

WORF [OC]: In a pool of water, the road ahead will
be filled with good fortune. 
LAFORGE: Hang in there, Worf. Give me just a second. There. That should
do it. 
[Holodeck Cavern]

(the pool stops flickering) 
NIKOLAI: You see? Our journey is already blessed. The road ahead is
long. Let us have a meal together, then we'll make preparations to
leave. 
(the people disperse) 
NIKOLAI: Worf, very good work. Apparently we don't make such a bad team
after all. 
WORF: We are not a team. I am here because Captain Picard ordered me
here. 
NIKOLAI: Worf, don't we both share the same goal? Aren't we both trying
to make this plan work? 
WORF: Only because you forced us into it. 
NIKOLAI: I'm not ashamed of what I did. I'm not sorry I saved their
lives. 
WORF: You have not changed. You still expect people to solve the
problems you create. 
NIKOLAI: I'm not here to work out the issues of our childhood. I'm here
to save a people who I care about. And if that upsets you, then so be
it.

