PICARD RIKER DATA WORF
ago life rare shield danger away analysis want circumstances

[Bridge]

PICARD: Analysis. Mister Data. 
DATA: The planet's atmosphere is dissipating, sir. Intense plasmonic
reactions are destroying it. The stratosphere is already breaking down.
There are turbulent radiation storms across much of its surface. I
estimate that the planet will be uninhabitable in less than thirty
eight hours. 
RIKER: The distress call came in only four days ago. Why would Doctor
Rozhenko have waited so long before sending it? 
DATA: Atmospheric dissipation is a rare and essentially unpredictable
event. When it occurs, it proceeds rapidly. Doctor Rozhenko may not
have had sufficient warning. 
(ship shakes) 
PICARD: What was that? 
DATA: The dissipation effect is generating plasmonic energy bursts. 
RIKER: Is there any danger to the ship? 
DATA: I do not believe so. However, we may experience intermittent
system failures and power surges as a result. 
PICARD: Keep an eye on it. Mister Worf, any luck? 
WORF: There is still no response to our hails, sir. I am attempting to
scan the observation post. 
RIKER: He could be hurt. Maybe he can't respond. 
WORF: Sensor interference is significant, but the post appears to be
intact. Their power grid is still functioning. However, I am reading no
life forms within the structure. 
RIKER: It's not like him to the post. 
PICARD: Especially under these circumstances. 
WORF: Captain, I am detecting faint power emissions from a system of
caverns near the post. It could be a deflector shield. 
RIKER: That can't be native to the planet. The Boraalans don't have
anything close to that level of technology. 
WORF: Captain, request permission to lead an away team. 
PICARD: Very well. But regardless of this planet's immediate situation,
we must observe the Prime Directive. I want to minimise the risk of
contact with the inhabitants. You will go alone, Mister Worf, and I
want to have you surgically altered so that you could pass as a
Boraalan. 
WORF: Aye, sir.

