GATES RIKER WORF PICARD KATERAS VORIN CRUSHER DATA

[Stellar cartography]

DATA: These are the two planets which best match
our search criteria. Draygo Four features an unusually large temperate
zone. However, it is within three light years of Cardassian space. 
CRUSHER: There are constant border disputes in that sector. 
DATA: The alternative is Vacca Six. It is located in the Cabral sector.

CRUSHER: That's pretty isolated. 
DATA: It offers a less hospitable climate than the Boraalans are
accustomed to. However, it would still appear to be the better choice.
Do you disagree, Doctor? 
CRUSHER: No, Data, you're right. It's just that the enormity of what
we're doing is overwhelming. We are deciding the future of a species. 
DATA: It is a formidable responsibility. 
CRUSHER: There are so many questions we don't have answers to. What if
the climate is so different that it affects them in a way that we can't
anticipate? How do we even know they'll be able to survive? And if they
do, how will their society evolve and what impact will it have on the
Vaccan system? We have no idea what this decision will mean to their
future. 
DATA: Doctor, I do not believe we can offer any guarantees. We can
simply make the best choice we have at the moment. 
CRUSHER: All right, Data. Vacca Six it is. 
DATA: Data to Bridge. 
PICARD [OC]: Picard here. 
DATA: We have located a new home for the Boraalans, sir. 
[Bridge]

DATA [OC]: It is Vacca Six in the Cabral sector. 
RIKER: We can reach that in forty two hours at maximum warp, sir. 
PICARD: Very well. Helm, set course for Vacca Six. 
GATES: Aye, sir. 
[Holodeck Cavern]

(the meal is ending and Vorin is writing on a
series of thin wooden sheets) 
WORF: What is this? 
VORIN: Our chronicle. The history of our village. Doesn't your village
keep a chronicle? 
WORF: Not in this manner. 
VORIN: Then how do you teach your children their history, who their
ancestors were, where they come from? 
WORF: We tell each other stories, make up songs. 
VORIN: Stories change with each person who tells them. This, this will
always be the same. Our chronicle has been maintained for seventeen
generations. I was only able to save the last six. This shows the
destruction of our village. This is you and Nikolai leading us to
safety. 
WORF: We must leave. Gather your belongings. 
VORIN: One of the scrolls is gone. I must have dropped it in the
passageway. I'll go find it. 
WORF: We must stay together. We will have to leave it behind. 
VORIN: Worf, the chronicle is the life of our village. Without that
past, our future means nothing. I must find it. 
WORF: Go, and return quickly. 
KATERAS: Seer. I am an old man. Would you help me with my gear? 
WORF: Of course. 
KATERAS: That is Tarrana, my daughter. I am fortunate she was old
enough to survive the storms. 
WORF: She is a fine girl. 
KATERAS: She is a beautiful girl. She has not been promised to anyone.
If I do not reach our new home, I would like her to become your wife. 
WORF: You will reach your new home. I promise. 
(meanwhile, Vorin has found his scroll, and the arch partly showing in
the rock. He touches it and the door appears. He steps forward, it
opens and out he goes)

