TROI LAFORGE WORF PICARD QUINT RIKER RONIN [OC] NURSE CRUSHER DATA MATURIN
daughter biospectral generation mirror selar feelings wasn green time

[Howard home]

(Beverly enters, soaked from the storm. The house
is filled with camellias) 
CRUSHER: Who's there? Ned? Is that you? Hello? I know somebody's here,
so I suggest you 
(a mirror bounced against the wall. She removes it and is about to put
it back when she sees the reflection of a man behind her. She drops the
mirror, but there is no one there) 
CRUSHER: All right now, that's it. If you don't show yourself right now
I am calling the Enterprise and there will be ten security guards here
within thirty seconds. 
RONIN [OC]: Beverly. Beverly, I've come back for you 
CRUSHER: Who are you? 
RONIN [OC]: Don't you remember? I came to you last night while you were
asleep. 
CRUSHER: No, that was a dream. I'm calling the Enterprise. 
(she goes weak at the knees) 
RONIN [OC]: Now do you remember me? 
CRUSHER: Yes. What's, what's happening to me? Right now I feel so
strange. 
RONIN [OC]: I love you, Beverly, just as I loved Felisa before you. 
CRUSHER: Are you Ronin? 
RONIN [OC]: Yes. You saw me at the funeral. 
(Beverly has a little orgasm) 
CRUSHER: Who are you? 
RONIN [OC]: I'm a spirit. 
CRUSHER: I don't believe in 
RONIN [OC]: Ghosts? Nor did I in the beginning. I was born in sixteen
forty seven, in Glasgow on Earth. 
CRUSHER: You're telling me that you're an eight hundred year old ghost?

RONIN [OC]: I found a home with Jessel Howard. She was a pretty lass
with a mane of red hair, and eyes like diamonds. I loved her very much.
When she died, I stayed with her daughter, and her daughter, and on
down through the years, generation after generation. 
CRUSHER: And now you're here on Caldos, two hundred light years away? 
RONIN [OC]: When your family moved out into the galaxy, I moved with
them. 
CRUSHER: I don't believe you. 
RONIN [OC]: I believe you are the most beautiful women I have ever
known. 
CRUSHER: What's, what's happening to me? 
RONIN [OC]: We're becoming one, Beverly. We're going to be together. 
CRUSHER: I don't understand. Stop it! 
[Crusher's quarters]

(Beverly is arranging flowers) 
CRUSHER: Come in. 
TROI: Hi, Bev. I just wanted to see if you were going to mok'bara class
this morning. 
CRUSHER: No, I think I'll skip it today. I'm exhausted. 
TROI: Did you have another dream last night? 
CRUSHER: Not exactly. 
TROI: Is anything wrong? 
CRUSHER: Not at all. 
TROI: Beverly, if I didn't know any better, I'd say you were seeing
someone. 
CRUSHER: Deanna. 
TROI: Now I know you're seeing someone. 
CRUSHER: I'm not seeing anybody. I met someone, that's all. 
TROI: Well, you obviously have romantic feelings for him. Beverly, when
are you going to realise that you can't fool me? Who is it? 
CRUSHER: All right. I met Ronin. 
TROI: Ronin? Your grandmother's lover? 
CRUSHER: He's unlike anyone I've ever met before. I know this sounds
crazy, but I have never known anyone who was so 
TROI: Passionate. 
CRUSHER: Exactly. I can see why Nana fell in love with him. This sounds
very strange, doesn't it? 
TROI: I admit it's unusual. I'm very happy for you. But I want you to
consider something. You and Ronin have both suffered a tremendous loss.
Very often, shared traumatic experience can create the illusion of
closeness and romance. 
CRUSHER: Thank you for your concern, but I think I know what I'm doing.
Besides, I didn't say I was in love with him. I'm just intrigued.

[Turbolift]

MATURIN: You know, Captain, I moved to this colony
because it was a recreation of Scotland, but I must admit it's getting
to be a little too realistic. 
(he sneezes) 
[Bridge]

(there is low-lying mist on the deck) 
PICARD: What the hell is going on? 
DATA: There appears to be a condensed suspension of water vapour,
approximately one degree Celsius. 
PICARD: Fog. 
RIKER: It just sort of rolled in on us, sir. 
WORF: There has been a malfunction in the ship's environmental control.

RIKER: We've traced the problem to the power transfer beam. There's
some sort of feedback coming from one of the colony's weather
substations. 
MATURIN: Another power fluctuation? 
WORF: Captain, the temperature in Ten Forward has dropped to below
freezing and deck thirteen has lost gravity. 
PICARD: Mister Data, disengage the power transfer. 
DATA: I am unable to terminate the connection, sir. A feedback loop has
formed in the transfer beam. I will have to go to the substation and
attempt to correct the problem from there. 
PICARD: Make it so. 
(Data leaves) 
PICARD: In the meantime, I think I'll go get my jacket.

[Weather control station]

DATA: I have analysed the control module in the
primary weather control grid. It appears the station is experiencing a
system wide power failure. 
LAFORGE: This is impossible. The back up systems should have 
(an alarm sounds and they spot Ned underneath a console) 
DATA: Excuse me, sir. You are dismantling the primary power conduit. I
must ask you to stop. 
QUINT: No! (Data pulls him out) Get away from me! You dinna understand.
He's trying
to kill us all.
(green energy leaps out at Ned and throws him across the room) 
DATA: He is dead. 
(later, others have gathered) 
LAFORGE: From what I can tell, he was trying to shut down the entire
weather control system. He was pulling out the primary plasma conduit.
That's probably what caused the plasma discharge that killed him. 
MATURIN: I knew Ned Quint. He was an honest man. He mostly kept to
himself. I don't know why he'd try something like that. 
LAFORGE: It's going to take us some time to get the system back online.
I'd say we need another day at least. 
DATA: In the meantime, Governor, you should expect the weather problems
to continue. 
CRUSHER: I think you'd better take a look at this. 
(Beverly is by Ned's body) 
CRUSHER: Data, you said there was a plasma discharge from the console
when Quint was killed. 
DATA: That is correct. 
CRUSHER: Well, that wasn't what killed him. I'm detecting an anomalous
energy residual throughout his body, right down to the cellular level.
Whatever it is, it wasn't the result of a plasma discharge. 
(Data scans the corpse) 
LAFORGE: Anything? 
DATA: I cannot identify the energy residual. However, it appears to
have the same anaphasic signature as the power fluctuations we observed
from the weather control system. 
LAFORGE: Then it's possible that whatever caused the weather
malfunctions also killed Quint. 
DATA: It is possible. 
LAFORGE: We should scan the colony for any energy readings that match
this anaphasic signature. 
CRUSHER: Governor, with your permission, I'd like to take the body back
to the ship to run further tests. 
MATURIN: Of course, Doctor. 
CRUSHER: Ensign, ask Doctor Selar run a biospectral analysis. 
NURSE: Yes, Doctor. 
MATURIN: You're not going to run the tests yourself? 
CRUSHER: No. I have some things I need to attend to. 
