TROI LAFORGE WORF PICARD QUINT RIKER RONIN NURSE CRUSHER DATA MATURIN

[Crusher's quarters]

(Beverly is arranging flowers) 
CRUSHER: Come in. 
TROI: Hi, Bev. I just wanted to see if you were going to mok'bara class
this morning. 
CRUSHER: No, I think I'll skip it today. I'm exhausted. 
TROI: Did you have another dream last night? 
CRUSHER: Not exactly. 
TROI: Is anything wrong? 
CRUSHER: Not at all. 
TROI: Beverly, if I didn't know any better, I'd say you were seeing
someone. 
CRUSHER: Deanna. 
TROI: Now I know you're seeing someone. 
CRUSHER: I'm not seeing anybody. I met someone, that's all. 
TROI: Well, you obviously have romantic feelings for him. Beverly, when
are you going to realise that you can't fool me? Who is it? 
CRUSHER: All right. I met Ronin. 
TROI: Ronin? Your grandmother's lover? 
CRUSHER: He's unlike anyone I've ever met before. I know this sounds
crazy, but I have never known anyone who was so 
TROI: Passionate. 
CRUSHER: Exactly. I can see why Nana fell in love with him. This sounds
very strange, doesn't it? 
TROI: I admit it's unusual. I'm very happy for you. But I want you to
consider something. You and Ronin have both suffered a tremendous loss.
Very often, shared traumatic experience can create the illusion of
closeness and romance. 
CRUSHER: Thank you for your concern, but I think I know what I'm doing.
Besides, I didn't say I was in love with him. I'm just intrigued.

[Turbolift]

MATURIN: You know, Captain, I moved to this colony
because it was a recreation of Scotland, but I must admit it's getting
to be a little too realistic. 
(he sneezes) 
[Bridge]

(there is low-lying mist on the deck) 
PICARD: What the hell is going on? 
DATA: There appears to be a condensed suspension of water vapour,
approximately one degree Celsius. 
PICARD: Fog. 
RIKER: It just sort of rolled in on us, sir. 
WORF: There has been a malfunction in the ship's environmental control.

RIKER: We've traced the problem to the power transfer beam. There's
some sort of feedback coming from one of the colony's weather
substations. 
MATURIN: Another power fluctuation? 
WORF: Captain, the temperature in Ten Forward has dropped to below
freezing and deck thirteen has lost gravity. 
PICARD: Mister Data, disengage the power transfer. 
DATA: I am unable to terminate the connection, sir. A feedback loop has
formed in the transfer beam. I will have to go to the substation and
attempt to correct the problem from there. 
PICARD: Make it so. 
(Data leaves) 
PICARD: In the meantime, I think I'll go get my jacket.

[Weather control station]

DATA: I have analysed the control module in the
primary weather control grid. It appears the station is experiencing a
system wide power failure. 
LAFORGE: This is impossible. The back up systems should have 
(an alarm sounds and they spot Ned underneath a console) 
DATA: Excuse me, sir. You are dismantling the primary power conduit. I
must ask you to stop. 
QUINT: No! (Data pulls him out) Get away from me! You dinna understand.
He's trying
to kill us all.
(green energy leaps out at Ned and throws him across the room) 
DATA: He is dead. 
(later, others have gathered) 
LAFORGE: From what I can tell, he was trying to shut down the entire
weather control system. He was pulling out the primary plasma conduit.
That's probably what caused the plasma discharge that killed him. 
MATURIN: I knew Ned Quint. He was an honest man. He mostly kept to
himself. I don't know why he'd try something like that. 
LAFORGE: It's going to take us some time to get the system back online.
I'd say we need another day at least. 
DATA: In the meantime, Governor, you should expect the weather problems
to continue. 
CRUSHER: I think you'd better take a look at this. 
(Beverly is by Ned's body) 
CRUSHER: Data, you said there was a plasma discharge from the console
when Quint was killed. 
DATA: That is correct. 
CRUSHER: Well, that wasn't what killed him. I'm detecting an anomalous
energy residual throughout his body, right down to the cellular level.
Whatever it is, it wasn't the result of a plasma discharge. 
(Data scans the corpse) 
LAFORGE: Anything? 
DATA: I cannot identify the energy residual. However, it appears to
have the same anaphasic signature as the power fluctuations we observed
from the weather control system. 
LAFORGE: Then it's possible that whatever caused the weather
malfunctions also killed Quint. 
DATA: It is possible. 
LAFORGE: We should scan the colony for any energy readings that match
this anaphasic signature. 
CRUSHER: Governor, with your permission, I'd like to take the body back
to the ship to run further tests. 
MATURIN: Of course, Doctor. 
CRUSHER: Ensign, ask Doctor Selar run a biospectral analysis. 
NURSE: Yes, Doctor. 
MATURIN: You're not going to run the tests yourself? 
CRUSHER: No. I have some things I need to attend to. 
[Howard home]

CRUSHER: Ronin, I've got to talk to you. Are you
here? 
RONIN [OC]: I'm here. Beverly, did you miss me? 
CRUSHER: Yes. But I must talk to you. There's been an accident. 
RONIN [OC]: I know. Quint is dead. 
CRUSHER: Why did it happen? What was he doing? 
RONIN [OC]: Beverly, there's something more important we should talk
about. 
CRUSHER: Ronin, I've got to know. Quint's dead. 
(a hand reaches round and cups her face. His touch sends her all
unnecessary, and he maintains the contact all the time) 
CRUSHER: Ronin? 
RONIN: Yes. I need you to help me. 
CRUSHER: Help you? 
RONIN: It's not easy for me to take corporeal form. I can't do it for
long. I want you to light the candle. 
CRUSHER: Quint said you lived in the candle. Is that true? 
RONIN: Yes. If I'm away from it for too long, I begin to weaken. That's
why the women in your family have always kept the candle lit. 
CRUSHER: The candle's on the ship. I'll go get it. 
RONIN: No. I must go with you. 
CRUSHER: How? 
RONIN: The power transfer beam. I can travel along it. 
CRUSHER: And when the candle's lit, then what happens? 
RONIN: Then we'll be together, always. 
(he kisses her into near ecstasy, then vanishes)

