TROI LAFORGE CREWMAN PICARD QUINT RONIN NURSE CRUSHER DATA MATURIN

[Weather control station]

DATA: I have analysed the control module in the
primary weather control grid. It appears the station is experiencing a
system wide power failure. 
LAFORGE: This is impossible. The back up systems should have 
(an alarm sounds and they spot Ned underneath a console) 
DATA: Excuse me, sir. You are dismantling the primary power conduit. I
must ask you to stop. 
QUINT: No! (Data pulls him out) Get away from me! You dinna understand.
He's trying
to kill us all.
(green energy leaps out at Ned and throws him across the room) 
DATA: He is dead. 
(later, others have gathered) 
LAFORGE: From what I can tell, he was trying to shut down the entire
weather control system. He was pulling out the primary plasma conduit.
That's probably what caused the plasma discharge that killed him. 
MATURIN: I knew Ned Quint. He was an honest man. He mostly kept to
himself. I don't know why he'd try something like that. 
LAFORGE: It's going to take us some time to get the system back online.
I'd say we need another day at least. 
DATA: In the meantime, Governor, you should expect the weather problems
to continue. 
CRUSHER: I think you'd better take a look at this. 
(Beverly is by Ned's body) 
CRUSHER: Data, you said there was a plasma discharge from the console
when Quint was killed. 
DATA: That is correct. 
CRUSHER: Well, that wasn't what killed him. I'm detecting an anomalous
energy residual throughout his body, right down to the cellular level.
Whatever it is, it wasn't the result of a plasma discharge. 
(Data scans the corpse) 
LAFORGE: Anything? 
DATA: I cannot identify the energy residual. However, it appears to
have the same anaphasic signature as the power fluctuations we observed
from the weather control system. 
LAFORGE: Then it's possible that whatever caused the weather
malfunctions also killed Quint. 
DATA: It is possible. 
LAFORGE: We should scan the colony for any energy readings that match
this anaphasic signature. 
CRUSHER: Governor, with your permission, I'd like to take the body back
to the ship to run further tests. 
MATURIN: Of course, Doctor. 
CRUSHER: Ensign, ask Doctor Selar run a biospectral analysis. 
NURSE: Yes, Doctor. 
MATURIN: You're not going to run the tests yourself? 
CRUSHER: No. I have some things I need to attend to. 
[Howard home]

CRUSHER: Ronin, I've got to talk to you. Are you
here? 
RONIN [OC]: I'm here. Beverly, did you miss me? 
CRUSHER: Yes. But I must talk to you. There's been an accident. 
RONIN [OC]: I know. Quint is dead. 
CRUSHER: Why did it happen? What was he doing? 
RONIN [OC]: Beverly, there's something more important we should talk
about. 
CRUSHER: Ronin, I've got to know. Quint's dead. 
(a hand reaches round and cups her face. His touch sends her all
unnecessary, and he maintains the contact all the time) 
CRUSHER: Ronin? 
RONIN: Yes. I need you to help me. 
CRUSHER: Help you? 
RONIN: It's not easy for me to take corporeal form. I can't do it for
long. I want you to light the candle. 
CRUSHER: Quint said you lived in the candle. Is that true? 
RONIN: Yes. If I'm away from it for too long, I begin to weaken. That's
why the women in your family have always kept the candle lit. 
CRUSHER: The candle's on the ship. I'll go get it. 
RONIN: No. I must go with you. 
CRUSHER: How? 
RONIN: The power transfer beam. I can travel along it. 
CRUSHER: And when the candle's lit, then what happens? 
RONIN: Then we'll be together, always. 
(he kisses her into near ecstasy, then vanishes)

[Crusher's quarters]

CRUSHER: Computer, secure door. 
(Beverly is agitated as if she's withdrawing from a drug) 
CRUSHER: I lit the candle. Where are you? 
RONIN: It's all right. We're together. we're going to be one. I'm going
to become part of you, Beverly. Would you like that? 
CRUSHER: Oh, yes. More than anything. 
RONIN: As it was with your grandmother, and your great-grandmother, and
all of the Howard women before them. I'll take care of you. And you
will feel love as you've never felt it before. 
(Ronin turns into a green mist and enters Beverly) 
[Transporter room]

(Beverly is in Caldos clothes, and the candle is on
the pile of bags) 
PICARD: Beverly, what the hell is this? 
CRUSHER: I thought it was pretty self-explanatory. I'm leaving
Starfleet. Energize. 
PICARD: Belay that order. 
CREWMAN: Aye, sir. 
PICARD: Beverly, you can't just resign. 
CRUSHER: I can, and I have. I've decided to stay on Caldos and become a
healer like my grandmother. It's a proud Howard tradition and I've
decided to uphold it. Energise. I've resigned my commission, so unless
you plan on kidnapping me? 
(Picard nods and she is beamed away)

[Ready room]

TROI: Beverly was attracted to Ronin in a very
intense and intimate way. I warned her that it was all very sudden but
she didn't want to talk about it, so I let her alone. I sensed that she
was holding something back, that she wasn't telling me the whole truth.

PICARD: Do you think this Ronin could be exerting some sort of
influence over her? That it's because of him that she's staying? 
TROI: It's possible. But she may really believe she's in love with him.

PICARD: This is a rash decision, ill considered. It's not like Beverly
at all. 
TROI: I agree, but she does have the right to make that choice, even if
we don't feel it's a good one. 
(doorbell) 
PICARD: Come. 
DATA: Captain, Geordi and I have detected an energy residual with the
same anaphasic signature as the one we found on Ned Quint's body. 
PICARD: Where? 
DATA: Approximately seventeen kilometres from the centre of the colony,
sir. It is coming from the cemetery. 
PICARD: Data, I want you to go down to the cemetery. See if you can
pinpoint the source. 
DATA: Aye, sir. 
(Data leaves) 
PICARD: In the meantime, I would like to meet with this Ronin.

