TROI LAFORGE CREWMAN FELISA PICARD RIKER RONIN CRUSHER DATA

[Transporter room]

(Beverly is in Caldos clothes, and the candle is on
the pile of bags) 
PICARD: Beverly, what the hell is this? 
CRUSHER: I thought it was pretty self-explanatory. I'm leaving
Starfleet. Energize. 
PICARD: Belay that order. 
CREWMAN: Aye, sir. 
PICARD: Beverly, you can't just resign. 
CRUSHER: I can, and I have. I've decided to stay on Caldos and become a
healer like my grandmother. It's a proud Howard tradition and I've
decided to uphold it. Energise. I've resigned my commission, so unless
you plan on kidnapping me? 
(Picard nods and she is beamed away)

[Ready room]

TROI: Beverly was attracted to Ronin in a very
intense and intimate way. I warned her that it was all very sudden but
she didn't want to talk about it, so I let her alone. I sensed that she
was holding something back, that she wasn't telling me the whole truth.

PICARD: Do you think this Ronin could be exerting some sort of
influence over her? That it's because of him that she's staying? 
TROI: It's possible. But she may really believe she's in love with him.

PICARD: This is a rash decision, ill considered. It's not like Beverly
at all. 
TROI: I agree, but she does have the right to make that choice, even if
we don't feel it's a good one. 
(doorbell) 
PICARD: Come. 
DATA: Captain, Geordi and I have detected an energy residual with the
same anaphasic signature as the one we found on Ned Quint's body. 
PICARD: Where? 
DATA: Approximately seventeen kilometres from the centre of the colony,
sir. It is coming from the cemetery. 
PICARD: Data, I want you to go down to the cemetery. See if you can
pinpoint the source. 
DATA: Aye, sir. 
(Data leaves) 
PICARD: In the meantime, I would like to meet with this Ronin.

[Graveyard]

(it is night) 
LAFORGE: The energy readings are coming from this direction, but I
can't get an exact location. I'll try narrowing the scan field. 
DATA: The energy readings appear to be originating approximately two
metres below the surface. I believe they are concentrated within this
burial site. 
(the headstone says Felisa Howard)

[Howard home]

CRUSHER: I'm so glad you're here. I can't imagine
what life was like before I met you. 
RONIN: And it will only get better. 
(he turns into a green mist and enters her body) 
CRUSHER: Oh, Ronin. I had no idea I could feel this way. 
RONIN [OC]: We're nearly merged now. As two candles join to form a
single light, so we will flourish as one. 
(a knock at the door) 
RONIN [OC]: I love you, Beverly. 
CRUSHER: I love you. 
(another knock, then Picard enters) 
PICARD: Beverly? 
CRUSHER: Jean-Luc. 
PICARD: Sorry I startled you. I knocked but there was no answer. The
door was open. I hope you don't mind. 
CRUSHER: What do you want? 
PICARD: Well, I'd hoped to meet your new friend, Ronin. 
CRUSHER: He's not here. 
PICARD: Well, perhaps I could wait, if you don't mind. I'm really
anxious to meet this remarkable young man who swept away not just one,
but two of the Howard women. 
CRUSHER: (carrying the candle) Jealousy doesn't suit you, Jean-Luc. 
PICARD: Have you changed the colour of your eyes? 
CRUSHER: I just grew tired of the other colour. Don't you think it
suits me? 
PICARD: I think that I preferred your eyes the way they were before. I
think I preferred you the way you were before, Beverly. 
CRUSHER: Well, this is the way I am now. And this is my life. I've made
my decision and I'm not going to change my mind, so please leave me
alone. 
PICARD: Oh, no, there's something's wrong here. Now, Beverly, this is
more than just an obsessive love affair that has got out of hand. Tell
me, why is it that no one has seen this Ronin except you? 
RONIN: (coming down the stairs) All right, Captain. Here I am. I
believe Beverly asked you to leave her alone. 
(Beverly goes to Ronin's side) 
PICARD: So, you're Ronin. It's a pleasure to meet you. Where are you
from? 
RONIN: Earth. Scotland. 
PICARD: How long have you been on Caldos? 
RONIN: All that matters is that I'm here now, and that Beverly and I
plan to be together for the rest our lives. 
DATA [OC]: Data to Picard. 
PICARD: Go ahead, Data. 
DATA [OC]: Captain, we have located the source of the energy residual.
It appears to be concentrated within Felisa Howard's coffin. 
LAFORGE [OC]: Captain, we'd like permission to exhume the body. 
RONIN: You can't do that. Leave her alone. 
PICARD: Why not? What are you afraid of? 
RONIN: I'm not afraid of anything. But I cannot allow you to desecrate
her grave. 
PICARD: Data, ask Governor Maturin's permission to exhume the body.
Picard out. 
RONIN: I won't stand for this. I'll go to the Governor myself. 
PICARD: Go on. I wouldn't be surprised if he doesn't know who you are.
He'll probably have the same questions that I do. How did you get here?
What ship did you come on? 
CRUSHER: Jean-Luc, leave him alone. 
PICARD: Why don't you answer my questions? What ship? I'd like to look
at the passenger list. Where have you been living here? What's your
position? Who are your neighbours? 
(Ronin vanishes) 
PICARD: Come on, Beverly, we've got to get out of here. 
(Picard touches Beverly and gets zapped by green) 
CRUSHER: Jean-Luc. 
(Beverly grabs her medical kit) 
RONIN [OC]: Beverly, we must stop the others. They cannot exhume the
body. 
CRUSHER: We can't just leave him. He might die. 
RONIN [OC]: You must come. I am your love. I am the one who will take
care of you. 
CRUSHER: I can't just let him die. 
RONIN: Beverly, come with me. 
CRUSHER: No. No! 
RONIN: I'm sorry, I'm going to stop them. 
(Ronin leaves) 
CRUSHER: Come on, come on. 
PICARD: I'm all right. Beverly, go after him. Go to the cemetery. 
[Graveyard]

LAFORGE: La Forge to Enterprise. We're ready down
here. 
CREWMAN [OC]: Aye, sir. 
(the coffin is beamed out of the grave without the pile of soil
collapsing, and they
lift the lid off to reveal a white haired old lady) 
DATA: I am reading definite signs of anaphasic energy in her body. It
appears to extend to the cellular level. 
LAFORGE: That's impossible. She wasn't anywhere near the weather
station when Quint was killed. She died of natural causes. 
DATA: I suggest we run a deep tissue scan to look for any signs of 
(Felicia opens her bright green eyes, sits up and zaps the pair of
them) 
CRUSHER: No! Ronin, stop this. Stop this, please. 
FELISA: Beverly, it's all right. Have trust in me. 
CRUSHER: You're not Nana. Nana's dead. Leave her alone! 
(green comes out of Felisa and the corpse falls back. Ronin appears.) 
RONIN: Beverly! Forgive me. These men were trying to stop us from being
together. Once they're gone, everything will be right. 
CRUSHER: No, it won't. You've been infusing me with the same sort of
anaphasic energy that killed Quint. 
RONIN: He was trying to destroy me. I had to defend myself. My love. I
could never harm you. I am here to protect you. 
CRUSHER: No, you're not. There's no such thing as a ghost. You are some
sort of anaphasic lifeform. Anaphasic energy is extremely unstable. It
needs an organic host in order to maintain molecular cohesion or else
you'll die. Isn't that right? 
RONIN: Beverly. 
CRUSHER: I also scanned the candle. The flame is plasma based. You were
using it as a receptacle for yourself in order to get to me, in order
to merge with me. You have been using me, Nana, my entire family for
centuries. 
RONIN: And I loved all of them! And they loved me. Give me the candle,
Beverly. 
CRUSHER: No. No. 
(Ronin gives Geordi another zap) 
RONIN: Put it down, or I will kill him. Set it down and walk away. 
(Beverly puts it down then grabs Geordi's phaser and destroys it) 
RONIN: No! 
CRUSHER: (into Geordi's comm. badge) Crusher to Riker. Will, close off
all the plasma conduits in the weather control system. I'll explain
later. 
RIKER [OC]: Understood. 
CRUSHER: You've nowhere left to go. 
RONIN: Yes, I do. 
CRUSHER: Keep away from me. 
(Crusher shoots him) 
RONIN: Beverly. I love you. Beverly. 
(he runs at her and she destroys him)

Captain's log, supplemental. Commander La Forge and
Mister Data have recovered from their exposure to the anaphasic energy,
but I'm afraid Doctor Crusher's recovery will be of a more personal
nature.

