TROI CRUSHER QUINT

[Howard home]

(C19 romantic style with lots of wood and bunches
of dried lavender. Beverly pokes at a fire in the hearth) 
TROI: Your grandmother had remarkable green eyes. 
CRUSHER: Every woman in the Howard family has had green eyes, except
for my mother and me. 
TROI: How well do you remember your mother? 
CRUSHER: Very well. I loved her very much. I can remember her face
smiling down at me, and I can remember the sound of her voice and her
scent. But mostly I remember Nana, who raised me after my mother died. 
(she picks up a pierced metal lamp with a flickering candle in it) 
TROI: That's beautiful. 
CRUSHER: It's a family heirloom. It's been in the Howard clan for
generations. It's supposed to symbolise the enduring Howard spirit.
Wherever they may go, the shining light to guide them through their
fortune. Nana always kept it lit. I remember sitting here listening to
ghost stories with only the candle burning. 
TROI: You should take it with you. 
CRUSHER: I think I will. 
TROI: I'm going to head back to the ship. 
CRUSHER: You don't have to leave. 
TROI: I just thought you'd like some time alone. I'll see you later. 
CRUSHER: Thanks. 
(Troi leaves. Beverly wraps herself in a blanked and goes upstairs
reading Felicia's journal) 
(a middle aged man comes in and blows out the candle) 
CRUSHER [OC]: Who's there? 
(Beverly runs down stairs and grabs the lamp) 
CRUSHER: What the hell are you doing? Get out of my house. 
QUINT: I wouldna be so high and mighty with me, Beverly Howard Crusher.
I've spent more time here in the past five years than ye have in the
past twenty. 
CRUSHER: How do you know who I am? 
QUINT: I'm Ned Quint. I took care of your grandmother's house and her
affairs. 
CRUSHER: Nana never mentioned you. 
QUINT: There's a lot of things she didna talk about. Let me get rid of
that candle. 
CRUSHER: Why? 
QUINT: That candle has brought nothing but misery and bad luck to your
grandmother. 
CRUSHER: Look, Mister Quint, I don't know what your relationship was
with my grandmother, but this is my house now and these are my things. 
QUINT: That candle has been a curse on your family for generations. If
ye have a lick of sense, you'll listen to me right now and do away with
it. Now give it to me. 
CRUSHER: This is a family heirloom and I intend to keep it. Now would
you please get out of my house. Now! 
QUINT: Howard women. Always the same stubborn fools. I wash my hands of
it now. You stay on in this house and you keep that damned candle. I'll
not be responsible for what happens. 
CRUSHER: Get out. 
