TROI LAFORGE CREWMAN PICARD RONIN CRUSHER DATA

[Howard home]

CRUSHER: Ronin, I've got to talk to you. Are you
here? 
RONIN [OC]: I'm here. Beverly, did you miss me? 
CRUSHER: Yes. But I must talk to you. There's been an accident. 
RONIN [OC]: I know. Quint is dead. 
CRUSHER: Why did it happen? What was he doing? 
RONIN [OC]: Beverly, there's something more important we should talk
about. 
CRUSHER: Ronin, I've got to know. Quint's dead. 
(a hand reaches round and cups her face. His touch sends her all
unnecessary, and he maintains the contact all the time) 
CRUSHER: Ronin? 
RONIN: Yes. I need you to help me. 
CRUSHER: Help you? 
RONIN: It's not easy for me to take corporeal form. I can't do it for
long. I want you to light the candle. 
CRUSHER: Quint said you lived in the candle. Is that true? 
RONIN: Yes. If I'm away from it for too long, I begin to weaken. That's
why the women in your family have always kept the candle lit. 
CRUSHER: The candle's on the ship. I'll go get it. 
RONIN: No. I must go with you. 
CRUSHER: How? 
RONIN: The power transfer beam. I can travel along it. 
CRUSHER: And when the candle's lit, then what happens? 
RONIN: Then we'll be together, always. 
(he kisses her into near ecstasy, then vanishes)

[Crusher's quarters]

CRUSHER: Computer, secure door. 
(Beverly is agitated as if she's withdrawing from a drug) 
CRUSHER: I lit the candle. Where are you? 
RONIN: It's all right. We're together. we're going to be one. I'm going
to become part of you, Beverly. Would you like that? 
CRUSHER: Oh, yes. More than anything. 
RONIN: As it was with your grandmother, and your great-grandmother, and
all of the Howard women before them. I'll take care of you. And you
will feel love as you've never felt it before. 
(Ronin turns into a green mist and enters Beverly) 
[Transporter room]

(Beverly is in Caldos clothes, and the candle is on
the pile of bags) 
PICARD: Beverly, what the hell is this? 
CRUSHER: I thought it was pretty self-explanatory. I'm leaving
Starfleet. Energize. 
PICARD: Belay that order. 
CREWMAN: Aye, sir. 
PICARD: Beverly, you can't just resign. 
CRUSHER: I can, and I have. I've decided to stay on Caldos and become a
healer like my grandmother. It's a proud Howard tradition and I've
decided to uphold it. Energise. I've resigned my commission, so unless
you plan on kidnapping me? 
(Picard nods and she is beamed away)

[Ready room]

TROI: Beverly was attracted to Ronin in a very
intense and intimate way. I warned her that it was all very sudden but
she didn't want to talk about it, so I let her alone. I sensed that she
was holding something back, that she wasn't telling me the whole truth.

PICARD: Do you think this Ronin could be exerting some sort of
influence over her? That it's because of him that she's staying? 
TROI: It's possible. But she may really believe she's in love with him.

PICARD: This is a rash decision, ill considered. It's not like Beverly
at all. 
TROI: I agree, but she does have the right to make that choice, even if
we don't feel it's a good one. 
(doorbell) 
PICARD: Come. 
DATA: Captain, Geordi and I have detected an energy residual with the
same anaphasic signature as the one we found on Ned Quint's body. 
PICARD: Where? 
DATA: Approximately seventeen kilometres from the centre of the colony,
sir. It is coming from the cemetery. 
PICARD: Data, I want you to go down to the cemetery. See if you can
pinpoint the source. 
DATA: Aye, sir. 
(Data leaves) 
PICARD: In the meantime, I would like to meet with this Ronin.

[Graveyard]

(it is night) 
LAFORGE: The energy readings are coming from this direction, but I
can't get an exact location. I'll try narrowing the scan field. 
DATA: The energy readings appear to be originating approximately two
metres below the surface. I believe they are concentrated within this
burial site. 
(the headstone says Felisa Howard)

