TROI BEN LAFORGE WORF SITO PICARD RIKER TAURIK LAVELLE OGAWA CRUSHER

[Ready room]

PICARD: How long have you served on board the
Enterprise, Ensign? 
SITO: Seven months, sir. 
PICARD: I see I understand that you've been recommended for the Ops
position. Do you think you're up to it? 
SITO: I do, sir. 
PICARD: I'm not so sure. I'm concerned about your record. 
SITO: Sir? 
PICARD:  The incident that you were
involved in at the Academy. 
SITO: With all due respect that was three years ago. My record since
then 
PICARD: It doesn't matter how long ago it was, Ensign. Would you do
something like that again? 
SITO: I can assure you, sir, that I would never, never jeopardise lives
by participating in 
PICARD: A dare devil stunt? I would certainly hope not. What concerns
me is that you participated in a
cover-up that impeded an official investigation into the death of a
cadet. 
SITO: Sir, I know I should have told the truth right from the start 
PICARD: Yes you should, but you didn't. Instead you joined with the
others to pretended that was simply an accident. Now, what do you think
that tells me about your character? 
SITO: Sir, if you had any idea what it was like after that incident. I
didn't have any friends. I didn't have anyone to talk to. I had to take
my flight test with the instructor because no one else would be my
partner. In a lot of ways it would have been easier to just walk away,
but I didn't. I stuck with it. Doesn't that say something about my
character, too? 
PICARD: Well I'm really very sorry you didn't enjoy your time at the
Academy, Ensign. As far as I'm concerned, you should have been expelled
for what you did. Quite frankly, I don't know how you made it on board
this ship. You're dismissed. 
[Shuttlebay] 
(Taurik is firing a laser rifle at shuttlecraft
Curie from the gantry) 
LAFORGE: Another two seconds. Okay, that's enough. 
TAURIK: Sir, I'm a little puzzled. Why are we intentionally damaging
the shuttlecraft? 
LAFORGE: We're evaluating hull resiliency. Starfleet requires periodic
testing. 
TAURIK: I see. I don't believe I'm familiar with that requirement. 
LAFORGE: Probably because you're not a senior officer. 
TAURIK: If you wish, I could reconfigure the phaser to fire a low
intensity burst that would not harm the shuttle's hull. The test
procedure would not be affected. 
LAFORGE: It's fine the way it is. Now, give me another burst, about
four seconds, right here. 
TAURIK: Do you want me to fire from this position? 
LAFORGE: Actually, why don't you do it from over here. 
TAURIK: That would be consistent. 
LAFORGE: Consistent with what? 
TAURIK: With making it appear that this shuttle had fled an attack. 
LAFORGE: What makes you think that's what we're doing? 
TAURIK: The pattern of fire you have asked for is similar to what might
result if the shuttle had fled an attacker while engaging in evasive
manoeuvres. 
LAFORGE: It's an amazing coincidence. 
TAURIK: Yes, sir. It is indeed. Shall we proceed with the testing? 
LAFORGE: Yes, Ensign. Thank you.

[Sickbay]

CRUSHER: Alyssa, thank you for coming so quickly.
We have to prepare for surgery. We have a comatose patient with a
subdural hematoma. 
OGAWA: Yes, sir. 
CRUSHER: I want to make it clear that you are not to discuss what you
see here with anyone. 
OGAWA: I understand. 
(their patient is a spoon-head) 
CRUSHER: We'll need to synthesise at least a litre of Cardassian blood.

[Lavelle + Taurik's quarters]

(five card stud game in progress) 
BEN: It's your bet, Taurik. What I can't understand is why we're just
sitting here so close to the Cardassian border. 
LAVELLE: It must have something to do with that escape pod we picked
up. Don't you think, Sito? 
SITO: Maybe. 
LAVELLE: I wonder who was in it? 
BEN: You know what I heard? It was Ambassador Spock. 
TAURIK: That is most unlikely. 
BEN: That's what I was told. 
TAURIK: By whom? 
BEN: I can't say. 
LAVELLE: They beamed whoever was in it right to Sickbay. Did you see
anything when you went down there? 
OGAWA: No. Doctor Crusher just asked me to help her with the laboratory
schedule. 
TAURIK: I thought Lieutenant Powell was going to join us tonight? 
OGAWA: He had to do a double shift. 
LAVELLE: That's too bad. He must be the worst poker player I've ever
met. 
BEN: It's your bet, Sam. 
(with four clubs showing, Lavelle checks his hole card and grins)

[Riker's quarters]

(another poker game) 
WORF: Twenty. 
CRUSHER: The thing is, I saw Powell in Ten Forward with another woman,
and the way they were talking it made me wonder. 
TROI: Well, if he's seeing someone else he should tell Alyssa. I mean,
it might hurt her now, but it would be better in the long run. 
RIKER: I've been meaning to talk to you about something, Mister Worf. I
don't think Ensign Sito's prepared for the Ops position. 
WORF: Well, I must say I disagree, sir. 
LAFORGE: Counsellor. Pair of fours bets. 
RIKER: I'm listening. 
[Lavelle + Taurik's quarters]

BEN: The bet is fifty. 
TAURIK: It would be illogical for the Captain to deny you a promotion
for something you did as a cadet. 
SITO: He said it shows I don't have character. 
OGAWA: What did you say? 
SITO: What could I say? Maybe he's right. 
LAVELLE: Hey, you're a damn fine officer and you deserve that post as
much as anyone. One thing's for sure, I won't be getting it. Not if
it's up to Riker.

