RIKER JORET LAFORGE WORF SITO PICARD OGAWA CRUSHER
better assessing cardassians space forms respect judge served convinced

[Gymnasium]

(a martial arts class has just finished) 
WORF: Dismissed. Ensign Sito. 
SITO: Yes, sir. 
WORF: I also teach an advanced class. I believe you may be ready to
participate. However, before you can join the group, you must pass the
gik'tal. 
SITO: Gik'tal? 
WORF: Yes. It is a very ancient Klingon ritual. It tests your knowledge
of the forms of the mok'bara. 
SITO: I should practice first. 
WORF: No. No practise. That is part of the ritual. The test must be
unannounced. 
(Worf blindfolds her) 
WORF: Can you see? 
SITO: No. 
WORF: Good. The gik'tal has begun. Defend yourself. 
(of course, he easily throws her) 
WORF: You must anticipate my attack. 
SITO: Yes, sir. 
WORF: Defend yourself. 
(once again, she has no idea where he is before she lands on her back) 
WORF: Are you listening, Ensign? 
SITO: Yes, but 
WORF: Defend yourself. 
(and a third time) 
WORF: You did not anticipate. 
(Sito removes the blindfold) 
SITO: How am I supposed to defend myself when I can't see a thing? 
WORF: Stop making excuses. Replace the blindfold. 
SITO: No. It's not a fair test. 
WORF: Very good, Ensign. You have passed the challenge. 
SITO: What? By taking off the blindfold? 
WORF: It takes courage to say the test is unfair. 
SITO: One thing I don't understand. Doesn't gik'tal mean to the death? 
WORF: You speak Klingon. 
SITO: Sir, is there really such a thing as a gik'tal challenge? 
WORF: No, there is not. But perhaps next time you are judged unfairly,
it will not take so many bruises for you protest.

[Ready room]

SITO: All I've ever wanted is to make a career for
myself in Starfleet. I can't change what happened at the Academy. No
one can. All I can do is work hard and try to earn the respect of the
people I serve with. If you're not going to give me that chance, then I
respectfully request that you transfer me to another ship. 
PICARD: If you're looking for a more lenient commander, I don't think
you'll find one. 
SITO: Permission to speak freely, sir? 
PICARD: Please do. 
SITO: If you didn't want me on your ship you should have said so when I
was assigned to it. It's not your place to punish me for what I did at
the Academy. I've worked hard here. My record is exemplary. If you're
going to judge me, judge me for what I am now. 
PICARD: Very well, Ensign. I will. It took courage to come here and
face me after what I said to you the other day. I didn't ask you here
because I was assessing your qualifications for the Ops position. 
SITO: I don't understand, sir. 
PICARD: I was harsh with you because I wanted to assess you for a very
important mission. A mission that could put you in a situation that
would be far more unnerving than a dressing-down by your commanding
officer. 
SITO: Can I ask what that mission is, sir? 
PICARD: Join the senior officers in the Observation lounge at oh nine
hundred hours. We'll discuss it then. 
SITO: Yes, sir. 
PICARD: And, Ensign. I do know why you ended up on the Enterprise. I
asked for you. I wanted to make sure that you got a fair chance to
redeem yourself. 
SITO: Thank you, sir. 
[Sickbay]

OGAWA: You wanted to see me, Doctor? 
CRUSHER: Yes. Alyssa, I think you know how much I've come to depend
upon you here. I've recommended your promotion because your performance
here has been exemplary. 
OGAWA: Thank you, Doctor. I appreciate that. 
CRUSHER: But more than that, I've come to think of you as a friend.
Someone I really care about. 
OGAWA: That's nice of you to say. I feel the same way. 
CRUSHER: So, you and Andrew Powell? 
OGAWA: Someone told you. 
CRUSHER: Told me what? 
OGAWA: We were going to keep it a secret until the promotions are
announced. 
CRUSHER: Secret? 
OGAWA: He asked me to marry him. 
CRUSHER: Alyssa, that's wonderful! I'm so relieved. I mean happy.

[Observation lounge]

PICARD: Please, take a seat, Ensign. 
(then she sees the Cardassian) 
PICARD: This is Joret Dal. He was in the escape pod that we retrieved.
He is a member of the Cardassian military, and a Federation operative.
He has risked his life to bring us invaluable information about
Cardassian strategic intentions. Information that could very well
enhance the security of Bajor, as well as other planets in this sector.
Now, it is absolutely imperative that we return him safely back to
Cardassian space. 
JORET: It will not be easy. The border is heavily guarded. 
RIKER: As his ship was destroyed, he'll be using one of our shuttles. 
JORET: If a patrol stops me, I will claim to have stolen it. 
WORF: We have distressed the shuttle so that it appears to have been
fired upon. 
RIKER: Joret will attempt to talk his way past the patrol. 
JORET: If I were alone, the chances of my succeeding would be slim. But
if I had a prisoner with me, a Bajoran terrorist, I would appear to be
a bounty hunter. Border crossings of that nature are not uncommon, and
for a price the patrol can be convinced to look the other way. 
PICARD: Once the shuttle is safely past the patrol, Joret will put you
into an escape pod and return you back across the border. 
RIKER: Since the pod is so small, it will be difficult to detect. 
PICARD: We'll be waiting here to pick you up. 
SITO: I understand, sir. 
PICARD: Ensign, this is obviously a very dangerous mission. I'm not
ordering you to take part in it. 
SITO: Then I volunteer, sir. 
WORF: Be certain you understand the risk you are taking. If you are
captured 
SITO: I'm Bajoran. No one knows better than I do what Cardassians do to
their prisoners. I've made my decision. 
PICARD: Very well, Ensign. Will you report to Sickbay. Doctor Crusher
will explain. And Ensign Sito, I must ask you not to discuss this
mission with anyone. 
SITO: Yes, sir. 
(Sito leaves) 
JORET: I didn't realise she would be so young. 
[Shuttlebay]

SITO: The Captain asked Doctor Crusher to make it
look like Joret had mistreated me. 
(she's got bruises on her face) 
LAFORGE: We're all set here. 
(La Forge leaves) 
SITO: Sir. I want you to know that I really appreciate the fact that
you've always had confidence in me. 
WORF: Good luck. 
SITO: I'll see you soon. 
[Shuttlecraft]

JORET: We are approaching the border. It won't be
long before we're detected by the patrol ships. 
SITO: When they stop us, do you want me to say anything? 
JORET: No. It should seem that I've broken your will. If you're asked
any questions, look at me as though you're afraid to answer. 
SITO: Can I ask you something? Why are you doing this, risking your
life to help Starfleet? 
JORET: I don't consider myself a traitor, if that's what you're asking.
All my life I've served in the military. Once it was an institution
dedicated to the security of Cardassia, now it's little more than a
platform for ambitious Guls hoping to make their reputations in battle.
If the information I provided helps Starfleet deter even one pointless
skirmish, I've served my purpose. I'm sick of war. My people need
peace. 
SITO: I never thought I'd hear a Cardassian say something like that. 
JORET: And I never thought a Bajoran would risk her life to help a
Cardassian get home. 
SITO: Patrol ships moving in on our position. 
JORET: We don't have much time. 
(he shackles her wrists)

