PICARD [OC] RIKER BEN WORF PICARD TAURIK LAVELLE OGAWA DATA
ben room violation doesn increase coordinates accept example know

[Ten Forward]

LAVELLE: She must have left on that shuttle.
There's no other explanation. 
BEN: Do you have any idea where it went? 
LAVELLE: Toward Cardassian space. That's what I'm worried about. Oh,
there's one other thing, I noticed the shuttle was damaged. 
OGAWA: Sam, can we talk about something else? 
LAVELLE: Well don't you care what's happened to her? 
OGAWA: Of course. 
TAURIK: But we have to accept the fact that we're not always told about
everything that happens aboard ship. 
LAVELLE: Well, we can at least tell each other what we know. Do you two
know something? 
OGAWA: Sam, please. 
LAVELLE: I can't believe this. We're friends. 
TAURIK: We're also Starfleet Officers. 
OGAWA: I'm not allowed to talk about it. 
LAVELLE: Okay. I understand. I'd better get going. I've got duty in
half an hour. 
Captain's log, stardate 47566.7. We have reached
the coordinates in Federation space where Ensign Sito's escape pod was
to have rendezvoused with us. However, we have been waiting for over
thirty hours and as yet there is no sign of her. 
[Bridge]

RIKER: Report. 
LAVELLE: We completed a long range scan of the area, sir. The escape
pod doesn't seem to be out there. 
DATA: It is possible that at this distance we are unable to distinguish
the pod from the inorganic matter normally present in space. 
RIKER: Try narrowing the scan field. See if you can pick up any
biosigns. 
LAVELLE: Sir, it would help if I knew what kind of life signs to look
for. 
RIKER: You're scanning for Bajoran lifesigns. 
LAVELLE: Yes, sir. 
(Picard enters) 
RIKER: Nothing yet. The pod is thirty two hours overdue. 
WORF: Sir, I recommend we launch a probe to increase the range of our
sensor sweeps. 
RIKER: Launching a probe into Cardassian space would be a treaty
violation. 
PICARD: Mister Worf, prepare a probe and launch when ready. 
WORF: Aye, sir. Probe launched, sir. 
DATA: Sir, I am detecting signs of debris two hundred thousand
kilometres inside Cardassian space. Its mass and composition indicate
it could be the remains of a Federation escape pod. 
Captain's log, supplemental. We have intercepted a
Cardassian report stating that a Bajoran prisoner escaped her captor
and was killed in an evacuation pod as she tried to leave Cardassian
space. 
[Ready room]

PICARD: To all Starfleet personnel, this is the
Captain. It is my sad duty to inform you that a member of the crew,
Ensign Sito Jaxa 
[Engineering]

PICARD [OC]: Has been lost 
[Sickbay]

PICARD [OC]: In the line of duty. She was the
finest example of a Starfleet 
[Bridge]

PICARD [OC]: Officer, and a young woman of
remarkable courage 
