RIKER JORET BEN LAFORGE WORF SITO PICARD TAURIK LAVELLE OGAWA DATA
happens attempt absolutely dangerous deter field skirmish reached normally

[Observation lounge]

PICARD: Please, take a seat, Ensign. 
(then she sees the Cardassian) 
PICARD: This is Joret Dal. He was in the escape pod that we retrieved.
He is a member of the Cardassian military, and a Federation operative.
He has risked his life to bring us invaluable information about
Cardassian strategic intentions. Information that could very well
enhance the security of Bajor, as well as other planets in this sector.
Now, it is absolutely imperative that we return him safely back to
Cardassian space. 
JORET: It will not be easy. The border is heavily guarded. 
RIKER: As his ship was destroyed, he'll be using one of our shuttles. 
JORET: If a patrol stops me, I will claim to have stolen it. 
WORF: We have distressed the shuttle so that it appears to have been
fired upon. 
RIKER: Joret will attempt to talk his way past the patrol. 
JORET: If I were alone, the chances of my succeeding would be slim. But
if I had a prisoner with me, a Bajoran terrorist, I would appear to be
a bounty hunter. Border crossings of that nature are not uncommon, and
for a price the patrol can be convinced to look the other way. 
PICARD: Once the shuttle is safely past the patrol, Joret will put you
into an escape pod and return you back across the border. 
RIKER: Since the pod is so small, it will be difficult to detect. 
PICARD: We'll be waiting here to pick you up. 
SITO: I understand, sir. 
PICARD: Ensign, this is obviously a very dangerous mission. I'm not
ordering you to take part in it. 
SITO: Then I volunteer, sir. 
WORF: Be certain you understand the risk you are taking. If you are
captured 
SITO: I'm Bajoran. No one knows better than I do what Cardassians do to
their prisoners. I've made my decision. 
PICARD: Very well, Ensign. Will you report to Sickbay. Doctor Crusher
will explain. And Ensign Sito, I must ask you not to discuss this
mission with anyone. 
SITO: Yes, sir. 
(Sito leaves) 
JORET: I didn't realise she would be so young. 
[Shuttlebay]

SITO: The Captain asked Doctor Crusher to make it
look like Joret had mistreated me. 
(she's got bruises on her face) 
LAFORGE: We're all set here. 
(La Forge leaves) 
SITO: Sir. I want you to know that I really appreciate the fact that
you've always had confidence in me. 
WORF: Good luck. 
SITO: I'll see you soon. 
[Shuttlecraft]

JORET: We are approaching the border. It won't be
long before we're detected by the patrol ships. 
SITO: When they stop us, do you want me to say anything? 
JORET: No. It should seem that I've broken your will. If you're asked
any questions, look at me as though you're afraid to answer. 
SITO: Can I ask you something? Why are you doing this, risking your
life to help Starfleet? 
JORET: I don't consider myself a traitor, if that's what you're asking.
All my life I've served in the military. Once it was an institution
dedicated to the security of Cardassia, now it's little more than a
platform for ambitious Guls hoping to make their reputations in battle.
If the information I provided helps Starfleet deter even one pointless
skirmish, I've served my purpose. I'm sick of war. My people need
peace. 
SITO: I never thought I'd hear a Cardassian say something like that. 
JORET: And I never thought a Bajoran would risk her life to help a
Cardassian get home. 
SITO: Patrol ships moving in on our position. 
JORET: We don't have much time. 
(he shackles her wrists)

[Ten Forward]

LAVELLE: She must have left on that shuttle.
There's no other explanation. 
BEN: Do you have any idea where it went? 
LAVELLE: Toward Cardassian space. That's what I'm worried about. Oh,
there's one other thing, I noticed the shuttle was damaged. 
OGAWA: Sam, can we talk about something else? 
LAVELLE: Well don't you care what's happened to her? 
OGAWA: Of course. 
TAURIK: But we have to accept the fact that we're not always told about
everything that happens aboard ship. 
LAVELLE: Well, we can at least tell each other what we know. Do you two
know something? 
OGAWA: Sam, please. 
LAVELLE: I can't believe this. We're friends. 
TAURIK: We're also Starfleet Officers. 
OGAWA: I'm not allowed to talk about it. 
LAVELLE: Okay. I understand. I'd better get going. I've got duty in
half an hour. 
Captain's log, stardate 47566.7. We have reached
the coordinates in Federation space where Ensign Sito's escape pod was
to have rendezvoused with us. However, we have been waiting for over
thirty hours and as yet there is no sign of her. 
[Bridge]

RIKER: Report. 
LAVELLE: We completed a long range scan of the area, sir. The escape
pod doesn't seem to be out there. 
DATA: It is possible that at this distance we are unable to distinguish
the pod from the inorganic matter normally present in space. 
RIKER: Try narrowing the scan field. See if you can pick up any
biosigns. 
LAVELLE: Sir, it would help if I knew what kind of life signs to look
for. 
RIKER: You're scanning for Bajoran lifesigns. 
LAVELLE: Yes, sir. 
(Picard enters) 
RIKER: Nothing yet. The pod is thirty two hours overdue. 
WORF: Sir, I recommend we launch a probe to increase the range of our
sensor sweeps. 
RIKER: Launching a probe into Cardassian space would be a treaty
violation. 
PICARD: Mister Worf, prepare a probe and launch when ready. 
WORF: Aye, sir. Probe launched, sir. 
DATA: Sir, I am detecting signs of debris two hundred thousand
kilometres inside Cardassian space. Its mass and composition indicate
it could be the remains of a Federation escape pod. 
Captain's log, supplemental. We have intercepted a
Cardassian report stating that a Bajoran prisoner escaped her captor
and was killed in an evacuation pod as she tried to leave Cardassian
space. 
[Ready room]

PICARD: To all Starfleet personnel, this is the
Captain. It is my sad duty to inform you that a member of the crew,
Ensign Sito Jaxa 
