RIKER BEN SITO TROI TAURIK LAVELLE OGAWA
funny gold clock didn quarters talking promoted laughter red

  [Ten
Forward]

(a waiter is listening in on the conversation) 
RIKER: Fletcher has more experience with propulsion systems. 
TROI: But Carstairs is better with people. Considering this is a
supervisory position, I'd go with her. 
RIKER: I guess you're right. Didn't we just do crew evaluation reports?

TROI: Three months ago. 
RIKER: It seems like three weeks. Why don't we just give everybody a
promotion and call it a night, Commander? 
TROI: Fine with me, Captain. 
RIKER: Could we have two coffees, please. 
(at another table, four young people hear Troi's laughter) 
LAVELLE: (red uniform) What could be so funny? What's so funny about
crew evaluations? 
OGAWA: Don't worry about it, Sam. 
SITO: (gold, Bajoran) Can't we just try and have a good time here? 
LAVELLE: How can I have a good time when my career's being decided
across the room? Come on. Think promotion. Promotion. Promotion. 
TAURIK: (a vulcan) You can't really believe that what you are doing
will influence the outcome of your evaluation. 
(actually, he will become Vaurik of Voyager) 
LAVELLE: Promotion. Promotion. Promotion. 
OGAWA: It's a time-honoured strategy, Taurik. 
SITO: The Vedeks of the Janalan order maintain a round the clock chant
for the benefit of the Bajoran people. 
TAURIK: Considering the history of your planet, that doesn't exactly
validate what he's doing. 
LAVELLE: Promote me, please, so I can make Lieutenant and have my own
room. 
TAURIK: If you're unhappy sharing quarters with me, then you should put
in for a new room assignment. Just in case you're not promoted. 
(the waiter brings coffee) 
RIKER: I've been thinking about who to promote to Ops. 
TROI: The new night duty officer? 
RIKER: Lavelle is an obvious candidate, but I'm also considering Ensign
Sito. 
TROI: Thank you. 
BEN: You're welcome. Are you sure about dessert? 
TROI: Yes. Don't tempt me. 
(the waiter goes to the other table) 
LAVELLE: So, are they working on crew evaluations? 
BEN: Yep. 
SITO: Who are they talking about? 
BEN: It's not my place to say. 
SITO: Come on, Ben. 
LAVELLE: Please. 
BEN: All right, but I'm not sure you two are going to like it.
Apparently, you two are up for the same job. 
