TROI RIKER
old complete finishes review better admit way particular like

[Riker's quarters]

(Riker is practising his trombone when Troi strolls
in. He finishes the piece and then blows two notes) 
TROI: Is that supposed to be a question? 
(parp parp) 
TROI: Because if you're asking me if I liked what you were playing,
then the answer is yes. 
(paarp parp) 
TROI: You know, this is a much better way of communicating for you.
It's far less confusing than the way you normally speak. 
(parp!) 
RIKER: I knew I could count on my Imzadi, the ship's Counsellor to
boost my self-image. 
TROI: I'm glad to be of service. 
RIKER: Did you come here for something in particular, or just general
Riker bashing? 
TROI: Actually I wanted to ask your opinion about something. I've been
thinking about taking the Bridge Officer's test and becoming a full
Commander. 
RIKER: What brought this up? 
TROI: A lot of things. Working on the personnel review last month,
talking with Beverly about her experiences, going to my class reunion. 
RIKER: Ah, the class reunion. You saw a few old friends who had already
taken the test? 
TROI: All right, I admit it was a catalyst. But I can honestly say that
I've been thinking about this off and on over the past two years. 
RIKER: Why the past two years? 
TROI: Do you remember when the Enterprise hit that quantum filament and
I was in command on the Bridge? 
RIKER: I do. 
TROI: Well, when that happened, I was overwhelmed. But when it was over
I realised that a part of me missed it.
Not the actual disaster, but the experience of being in command. I felt
like I was exploring a whole new side of myself. Not that I want to
give up counselling by any means, but I really would like to stretch
myself a little. 
RIKER: Deanna, if you take the Bridge Officer's test, you'll have my
complete support. But as First Officer, I'll be the one judging your
performance, and you should know I am a pretty tough judge. 
TROI: And I'm a pretty good student. 
RIKER: We'll start tomorrow morning, oh eight hundred hours.

