TROI COMPUTER RIKER WORF LAFORGE
means maybe angry penny quarters decided command containment telling

[Troi's quarters]

TROI: The secondary plasma vent has a triple
redundant bypass. Which means that the primary access junction is
routed through 
(doorbell) 
TROI: Come in. Would be routed through the port transducer matrix. Come
to give me more encouragement? 
RIKER: No. I'm actually here to tell you that I've decided to cancel
the rest of your test. 
TROI: What? 
RIKER: I'm cancelling the test. 
TROI: May I ask why? 
RIKER: You've taken the Engineering qualification three times. You're
no closer to passing. 
TROI: Well, then I'll take it four times, or fourteen times, or however
many times are necessary for me to get it right. 
RIKER: Deanna, this is nothing personal. Not everyone is cut out to be
a Bridge Officer. I don't think this is for you. 
TROI: Why? Because I'm not the most technically-minded person on the
ship? I may have trouble telling the difference between a plasma
conduit and a phase inducer, but there's more to being a bridge officer
than memorising technical manuals. 
RIKER: That's right, there is. You could spend the next month
memorising all the technical manuals in the computer, I still don't
think you'd pass the test. 
TROI: Tell me one thing. Is there a solution? Or is this simply a test
of my ability to handle a no-win situation? 
RIKER: There is a solution. 
TROI: Then give me time to find it. 
RIKER: I can't. As much as I care about you, my first duty is to the
ship. I cannot let any Bridge Officer serve who's not qualified. I'm
sorry. 
(Riker leaves, Troi is angry then the penny drops) 
TROI: My first duty is to the ship. The ship!

[Holodeck - Engineering]

TROI: Computer, load Bridge Officer's test,
Engineering qualification section one. 
COMPUTER: Computer ready. 
TROI: Run programme. 
WORF: The control system for the primary containment field is not
functioning. 
LAFORGE: Something's severed the ODN conduit between here and the
antimatter storage deck. 
TROI: Geordi, could you repair the ODN conduit if you went into the
crawlspace? 
WORF: Sir, that crawlway is in a warp-plasma shaft. He would never
survive the radiation. 
TROI: I know that. Geordi, could you repair the conduit? 
LAFORGE: Yeah, I think I could. 
TROI: Then do it. That's an order. 
(Geordi exits to the Jefferies tube) 
RIKER: End simulation. Something told me you wouldn't let this go.
Congratulations. You passed. 
TROI: That's what this was all about, wasn't it? To see if I'd order
someone to their death. 
RIKER: That's right. 
TROI: I knew that was part of being in command and I thought I'd
prepared for it, but when the moment came I hesitated. Maybe you were
right. Maybe I'm not cut out for this. 
RIKER: You did exactly what you had to do. You considered all your
options, you tried every alternative, and then you made the hard
choice. Come on, let's get out of here, Commander.

