TROI CRUSHER RAINER

[Bridge]

(nightshift, with 'Captain' Crusher in command) 
CRUSHER: Send a message to Commander Data and inform him of our delay. 
RAINER: Aye, sir. 
(Troi enters) 
CRUSHER: Deanna, welcome back. 
TROI: Thank you. I was just reporting in. I didn't expect to find
anyone up except Data. 
CRUSHER: Data's away on assignment. A Federation deep space probe went
off course and crashed on Barkon Four. Some of the material in the
casing was radioactive, so Data was sent to recover it before it could
contaminate the biosphere. 
TROI: Isn't Barkon Four inhabited? 
CRUSHER: Yes, it's a pre-industrial society, but the probe crashed over
a hundred kilometres from the nearest settlement so Data shouldn't have
any contact with the Barkonians. So, how was the reunion? 
TROI: Fine. It was good to see some old friends. I'd lost touch with
most of them. It's interesting to see the different paths some of their
lives have taken. Beverly, you don't usually stand a watch on the
Bridge even when Data's not here. 
CRUSHER: I volunteered tonight. I like to put in a little Bridge time
now and then, stay on top of operations, tactical procedures. The truth
is, I like it. It's not every doctor who gets to command a starship,
even if it is the night shift. 
TROI: May I ask you a personal question? Why did you decide to become a
Commander? I mean, you didn't need the rank in order to be Chief
Medical Officer, so why put yourself through all the extra work? 
CRUSHER: Oh, I don't know. I never even thought about my rank for a
long time. It seemed pretty trivial compared to being a doctor. But
then, about eight years ago, I started to feel like I wanted to stretch
myself a little. 
RAINER: Commander, there's no response from Commander Data to our
signal. 
CRUSHER: Continue sending him updates on our schedule. 
RAINER: Aye, sir. 
TROI: Is something wrong? 
CRUSHER: No. I wanted to let Data know there'd be a delay in picking
him up for a few of days. We have orders to rendezvous with the
Lexington and take some medical supplies to the Taranko Colony. 
TROI: But he's not responding. 
CRUSHER: Geordi said that the radiation from the probe might interfere
with communications. I just thought I'd try anyway. 
