GIA TALUR DATA SKORAN CROWD
doing years excuse materials design extensive believe struck bought

[Town square]

(coming out of a shop) 
GIA: What are you going to do with all this? 
DATA: I will use these materials to make the laboratory equipment I
need to research your father's illness. 
GIA: Do you think you can help him? 
DATA: I do not know. First I must isolate the cause of the illness. 
SKORAN: There he is! It's his fault! None of us were sick before he
came to the village! 
CROWD: True. 
DATA: Am I to understand that Garvin's illness has spread? 
SKORAN: That's right. And you're the cause. 
GIA: That's not true! 
DATA: Gia, I think we should leave. 
SKORAN: That's it. Leave. Get out of here. Go back where you came from!

[Garvin's home]

(Data has made a new microscope with multiple
lenses and is working when Talur enters) 
TALUR: Jayden what are you doing? 
DATA: I am studying skin samples from Gia and Garvin in an attempt to
isolate the cause of the illness. 
TALUR: Gia? 
DATA: Yes. She is also beginning to show signs of the illness. 
TALUR: What is that? 
DATA: It is a magnifying device based on your hand-held instrument. I
have refined the design to increase the magnification level. 
TALUR: May I? 
DATA: Of course. 
TALUR: How strong is the magnification? 
DATA: Objects appear approximately five hundred times their normal
size. As you can see, the cellular damage is quite extensive. However,
based on interstitial transparency and membrane integrity, I do not
believe it is an infection or any other form of communicable disease. 
TALUR: I see. 
DATA: At the moment, I am looking for a common event or experience that
Gia, Garvin and Skoran might have shared that could have a causal
relationship to their illness. 
TALUR: Well they've all lived here in the village for many years. I'm
sure they have many common experiences. 
DATA: Yes, but since the illness struck all three in a relatively short
period of time, it is reasonable to assume the experience is recent and
unusual. 
TALUR: Actually, Jayden, encountering you has been the most unusual
experience that they've all shared recently. 
DATA: I am aware of that. Excuse me. I am also open to the possibility
that I may in some way be the causal factor. However, since you have
had a great deal of contact with me and you show no signs of the
sickness, I tend to discount myself as a likely candidate. 
TALUR: Still, it has to be more than just a coincidence that shortly
after you arrived, people started to become ill. 
DATA: I agree. 
(Gia comes downstairs) 
GIA: Jayden I tried to give father his broth, but he won't eat. 
TALUR: You have a fever. You should be in bed. 
GIA: No, I'm all right. Father needs me. 
DATA: Talur is correct. You should rest. I will attend to your father.
Gia, when did you begin wearing that pendant? 
GIA: Two days ago. Father bought it from Skoran. Why? 
DATA: May I see it? This is one of the metal fragments I sold to
Skoran. 
