TALUR DATA GIA GARVIN
set scientific quite lives clean probably mouth called winter

[Garvin's home]

(the local medicine woman is checking him over) 
TALUR: Remarkable set of teeth. Breath smells like, well, it doesn't
have any smell actually. You can close your mouth. Let's see. Heartbeat
sounds a little odd, but seems very regular. Skin feels clammy, but you
say you feel fine? 
DATA: That is correct. 
TALUR: No headaches, palpitations, sluggishness, indigestion? 
DATA: No. But I cannot have indigestion since I have not eaten. 
TALUR: Ah. Malnutrition. You should try to eat something that will
build strength and return your vitality. Lots of meat, butter, cheese,
that should be a start. 
GARVIN: What about his eyes and his skin? They're so odd. 
TALUR: Quite so, quite so. I'm sure my grandmother would have called
our friend here a demon or spirit or some kind of monster. But current
scientific methodology allows us to dismiss such ridiculous
superstitions and concentrate on scientific reality. 
DATA: Then what do you believe I am? 
TALUR: You are an ice man. 
DATA: Ice man? 
TALUR: Yes. You probably come from a race of people who lived in the
snow and ice of the Vellorian mountains. Your skin and eye colouration
are a result of prolonged exposure to harsh winter conditions. 
DATA: Then I am not ill? 
TALUR: Aside from your memory loss, you do not seem to have any
symptoms of any illness that I am familiar with. No. You are an ice
man. Now, get something to eat and a good night's rest, and I will come
back tomorrow to see if your memory has begun to return. 
DATA: Thank you. 
TALUR: Hello, Gia. 
GIA: Hello. 
(Talur leaves as Gia enters) 
GIA: What did Talur say about him? Is he sick? 
GARVIN: Not exactly. She said he's lost his memory, but seems to be
fine otherwise. Talur thinks he's from a race that lives in the
mountains. 
DATA: I am an ice man. 
GARVIN: We'll have to call you something besides Ice man until your
memory returns. What was the word on the container? 
DATA: Radioactive. 
GARVIN: Mister Radioactive? 
GIA: I don't like that name. Let's call him Jayden. 
GARVIN: What do you think of that? 
DATA: Jayden. That is acceptable. 
GARVIN: Right now, we need to clean him up and get him something decent
to wear. Run upstairs and get some of my old clothes for him. 
GIA: Yes, Father. 
GARVIN: I wonder if Skoran can tell us something about this metal of
yours. 
