TROI TALUR DATA RIKER GIA

[Garvin's home]

(Data has made a new microscope with multiple
lenses and is working when Talur enters) 
TALUR: Jayden what are you doing? 
DATA: I am studying skin samples from Gia and Garvin in an attempt to
isolate the cause of the illness. 
TALUR: Gia? 
DATA: Yes. She is also beginning to show signs of the illness. 
TALUR: What is that? 
DATA: It is a magnifying device based on your hand-held instrument. I
have refined the design to increase the magnification level. 
TALUR: May I? 
DATA: Of course. 
TALUR: How strong is the magnification? 
DATA: Objects appear approximately five hundred times their normal
size. As you can see, the cellular damage is quite extensive. However,
based on interstitial transparency and membrane integrity, I do not
believe it is an infection or any other form of communicable disease. 
TALUR: I see. 
DATA: At the moment, I am looking for a common event or experience that
Gia, Garvin and Skoran might have shared that could have a causal
relationship to their illness. 
TALUR: Well they've all lived here in the village for many years. I'm
sure they have many common experiences. 
DATA: Yes, but since the illness struck all three in a relatively short
period of time, it is reasonable to assume the experience is recent and
unusual. 
TALUR: Actually, Jayden, encountering you has been the most unusual
experience that they've all shared recently. 
DATA: I am aware of that. Excuse me. I am also open to the possibility
that I may in some way be the causal factor. However, since you have
had a great deal of contact with me and you show no signs of the
sickness, I tend to discount myself as a likely candidate. 
TALUR: Still, it has to be more than just a coincidence that shortly
after you arrived, people started to become ill. 
DATA: I agree. 
(Gia comes downstairs) 
GIA: Jayden I tried to give father his broth, but he won't eat. 
TALUR: You have a fever. You should be in bed. 
GIA: No, I'm all right. Father needs me. 
DATA: Talur is correct. You should rest. I will attend to your father.
Gia, when did you begin wearing that pendant? 
GIA: Two days ago. Father bought it from Skoran. Why? 
DATA: May I see it? This is one of the metal fragments I sold to
Skoran. 
[Troi's quarters]

TROI: The secondary plasma vent has a triple
redundant bypass. Which means that the primary access junction is
routed through 
(doorbell) 
TROI: Come in. Would be routed through the port transducer matrix. Come
to give me more encouragement? 
RIKER: No. I'm actually here to tell you that I've decided to cancel
the rest of your test. 
TROI: What? 
RIKER: I'm cancelling the test. 
TROI: May I ask why? 
RIKER: You've taken the Engineering qualification three times. You're
no closer to passing. 
TROI: Well, then I'll take it four times, or fourteen times, or however
many times are necessary for me to get it right. 
RIKER: Deanna, this is nothing personal. Not everyone is cut out to be
a Bridge Officer. I don't think this is for you. 
TROI: Why? Because I'm not the most technically-minded person on the
ship? I may have trouble telling the difference between a plasma
conduit and a phase inducer, but there's more to being a bridge officer
than memorising technical manuals. 
RIKER: That's right, there is. You could spend the next month
memorising all the technical manuals in the computer, I still don't
think you'd pass the test. 
TROI: Tell me one thing. Is there a solution? Or is this simply a test
of my ability to handle a no-win situation? 
RIKER: There is a solution. 
TROI: Then give me time to find it. 
RIKER: I can't. As much as I care about you, my first duty is to the
ship. I cannot let any Bridge Officer serve who's not qualified. I'm
sorry. 
(Riker leaves, Troi is angry then the penny drops) 
TROI: My first duty is to the ship. The ship!

