TROI DATA LAFORGE RIKER ERIC
shaping motif object melt readings field messenger compass reconfiguring

[Classroom]

TROI: (to a child) That's nice. Data, this is
amazing. How did you come up with this? 
(Data has made a half-face mask with a compass rose motif on the
forehead) 
DATA: I followed your advice, Counsellor. I used my imagination. 
TROI: That's an understatement. 
DATA: For some reason, as I was shaping the clay, the image of the mask
was exceptionally clear in my mind. The design seemed to flow quite
naturally. 
TROI: Data, have you been in my quarters? 
DATA: No, Counsellor. 
TROI: Somebody left an object in my room. Some kind of artefact, and it
has something very similar to this. And you don't know anything about
it? 
DATA: I do not. 
ERIC: Excuse me, Counsellor. Can you help me with my terminal? It's not
working right. 
(the screen shows the mask and alien glyphs) 
DATA: Perhaps we should investigate this matter further.

[Engineering]

RIKER: These symbols don't match anything in the
Federation linguistic banks. 
LAFORGE: Some kind of alien information has been downloaded into our
computer core. I don't know how it's working, but it's reconfiguring
our systems. 
RIKER: How did it get in? 
LAFORGE: I was able to trace its path from the replicators to the
sensor array. 
RIKER: The sensors? They've been scanning that comet for the past
eighteen hours. 
LAFORGE: Those energy readings from the comet's core, that sensor echo.
We still don't know what's inside that thing. 
RIKER: Maybe it's about time we found out. Could we use the phasers to
melt down the shell of the comet? 
LAFORGE: Yeah, a dispersed wide-field beam might do the trick. It
wouldn't take long to come up with the firing parameters. What do you
think, Data? 
(Data is still staring at the screen) 
LAFORGE: Data? What's wrong? 
DATA: I believe I recognise these symbols. 
RIKER: How? 
DATA: I do not know. 
LAFORGE: Do you think maybe your systems have been affected? 
DATA: It is a possibility. I do not believe my systems are currently
impaired, but I will run a full diagnostic to make certain. 
RIKER: What do you think they mean? 
DATA: Boundary. Border. Road. Companion. Message. Messenger. 
(a golden sun-face fills the screen) 
LAFORGE: What's that one? 
DATA: Death.

