TROI LAFORGE WORF PICARD RIKER DATAMASAKA

[Temple]

PICARD: This would seem that this is Masaka's
temple. 
WORF: There is no one else here. 
(Troi scans the Maya-esque structure) 
PICARD: Ihat said that if we created the temple, then it would get her
attention. It may be some time before she shows herself. 
(Troi goes up the steps to the throne) 
WORF: How will she do that? 
PICARD: I don't know. 
TROI: Captain, take a look at this. 
PICARD: This is the first time I've seen these two symbols paired. That
could be significant. Look, there it is again, and again. And there
again. This is obviously an important pairing. He isn't chasing her
anymore. 
TROI: Sir? 
PICARD: Ihat said that someone named Korgano isn't chasing Masaka
anymore. And the old man said, he pursues her no longer. In a sense,
this small symbol might be seen to be chasing Masaka. 
WORF: The symbol suggests antlers of some kind. Horns. Maybe it is
meant to represent an animal. 
TROI: Animals are worshipped in many cultures. 
PICARD: That smaller symbol could represent Korgano. Both Ihat and the
old man said that Korgano was the only one who could control Masaka.
Many ritualistic cultures incorporate the idea of balance into their
belief systems. Now, Masaka is a queen. A powerful, god-like figure.
It's not unrealistic to believe that she might have a counterpart, a
consort. Look around. See if you can find that horn-like symbol
anywhere else.

[Data's quarters]]

(Data wakes and puts on his version of Masaka's
mask)

[Corridor]

(Data knocks out the guards)

[Temple]

TROI: This is the most prominent instance of the
horn symbol we've seen yet. 
WORF: But now it appears as though Masaka's sun is chasing it. 
TROI: The sun chasing an animal? 
PICARD: Maybe it's simpler than that. Maybe their relationship is more
like the sun and the moon. 
WORF: I see. Masaka and Korgano switching positions. The sun setting
and the moon rising. 
PICARD: Exactly. Like two powerful rulers changing places in a
continuous cycle. 
TROI: And like the sun and the moon, only one of them can be in
ascendance at any given time. 
PICARD: If we can find Korgano in the archive and bring him out, then
perhaps he could force Masaka to leave. 
WORF: But would we be any better off with him? 
PICARD: Ihat and the others didn't seem to be frightened of Korgano. 
(the room shake) 
TROI: Sir. 
PICARD: Masaka. 
(Data sits on the throne) 
PICARD: Masaka, I am Captain Jean-Luc Picard of the Federation Starship

DATA-MASAKA: Go away. 
PICARD: Please, hear us. Your archive is destroying 
DATA-MASAKA: I do not hear you. 
WORF: She will not even listen to us. 
PICARD: Then we will have to find someone too whom she will listen.

[Bridge]

LAFORGE: I've found it, Captain. This is the only
place in the archive where Korgano's moon symbol appears by itself, not
linked with Masaka's. 
PICARD: All right, Mister La Forge, I want you to access the
transformation programme. And when you're ready, input the symbol. 
RIKER: Isn't that a little risky? 
TROI: We have no way idea what the result would be. The symbol might
generate anything from Korgano's temple to Korgano himself. 
PICARD: In one sense, Korgano is Masaka's nemesis. Whatever this symbol
represents, it could be for us a means to control her. Now, if anyone
has a better idea, I'd be happy to entertain it. 
LAFORGE: I've accessed the programme, Captain. 
PICARD: Initiate the transformation. 
(a mask appears) 
RIKER: Another mask. 
PICARD: You know, we could be going about this all the wrong way. This
is a very ritualistic culture based on symbol and myth. Perhaps we
should try to confront them on those terms. If I could somehow
incorporate myself in their ritual, then perhaps Masaka would listen to
me. 
RIKER: You're going to try to pose as Korgano? 
TROI: Captain, we know so little about this culture and even less about
Korgano. How would you convince Masaka that you're him? 
PICARD: I'm really not certain, but there are similarities between this
culture and others that I've studied. I would imagine I'm just going to
improvise. Mister Worf, what's our status? 
WORF: I estimate we have less than two hours before there is nothing
left of the ship. At least, nothing we can recognise.

