PICARD RIKER DATA LAFORGE WORF
bridge terminated scanning yeah technologically computer anomalies banks travelled

[Engineering]

RIKER: These symbols don't match anything in the
Federation linguistic banks. 
LAFORGE: Some kind of alien information has been downloaded into our
computer core. I don't know how it's working, but it's reconfiguring
our systems. 
RIKER: How did it get in? 
LAFORGE: I was able to trace its path from the replicators to the
sensor array. 
RIKER: The sensors? They've been scanning that comet for the past
eighteen hours. 
LAFORGE: Those energy readings from the comet's core, that sensor echo.
We still don't know what's inside that thing. 
RIKER: Maybe it's about time we found out. Could we use the phasers to
melt down the shell of the comet? 
LAFORGE: Yeah, a dispersed wide-field beam might do the trick. It
wouldn't take long to come up with the firing parameters. What do you
think, Data? 
(Data is still staring at the screen) 
LAFORGE: Data? What's wrong? 
DATA: I believe I recognise these symbols. 
RIKER: How? 
DATA: I do not know. 
LAFORGE: Do you think maybe your systems have been affected? 
DATA: It is a possibility. I do not believe my systems are currently
impaired, but I will run a full diagnostic to make certain. 
RIKER: What do you think they mean? 
DATA: Boundary. Border. Road. Companion. Message. Messenger. 
(a golden sun-face fills the screen) 
LAFORGE: What's that one? 
DATA: Death.

[Bridge]

WORF: Captain, phasers are set for wide dispersal,
ten percent maximum power. The beam will automatically terminate once
the comet's core is reached. 
PICARD: Very well, Mister Worf. Fire. 
WORF: Phasers have terminated. 
(and now we see a curiously elegant alien construction, several times
the size of the Enterprise) 
PICARD: Mister Data, what are we looking at? Is it a ship? 
DATA: I do not know, sir. The object is nearly solid. It is composed
primarily of fortanium and several unknown materials. It is over eighty
seven million years old. 
RIKER: That's older than the comet itself. Could someone from the
D'Arsay system have built it? 
PICARD: There are no technologically advanced cultures in that system
now. But perhaps eighty seven million years ago, there were. 
RIKER: Why would they want to hide something like that inside a comet? 
PICARD: Possibly it accumulated those frozen gasses over time as it
travelled through space. 
LAFORGE: In any case, it's definitely responsible for the system
anomalies we've been experiencing. They're using our sensor beam as a
carrier wave to transmit information into our computers and
replicators. 
PICARD: But the question remains, why? What is its purpose? 
DATA: Captain, I believe this object is an informational archive. 
PICARD: Why do you say that, Mister Data? 
DATA: I do not know. However, I seem to have an intuitive understanding
of its function. 
LAFORGE: Data, the internal structure of that thing is pretty complex,
and it's got a repetitive node configuration which might suggest a
database of some kind, but it could be practically anything. I don't
see how you could know for sure what it is. 
PICARD: Data, do you believe that you're in communication with that
object? 
DATA: It is a possibility, sir. I recommend we run a level one
diagnostic of my positronic net immediately to determine if that is the
case. 
PICARD: Very well. Mister LaForge, give him a hand. 
LAFORGE: Aye, sir. 
RIKER: Do you think it's just trying to make contact with us? 
PICARD: Yes, it's possible. But if that is an archive from some ancient
civilisation, we should allow it to do so. But we must be careful.
Mister Worf, will you keep an eye on the sensors. If the ship is in any
danger, I want you to sever the connection immediately. 
WORF: Aye, sir.

