TROI DATA-MASAKA LAFORGE WORF PICARD RIKER RIKER [OC] DATA
bridge don takes maybe share bring wrong brightening generate

[Corridor]

(Data knocks out the guards)

[Temple]

TROI: This is the most prominent instance of the
horn symbol we've seen yet. 
WORF: But now it appears as though Masaka's sun is chasing it. 
TROI: The sun chasing an animal? 
PICARD: Maybe it's simpler than that. Maybe their relationship is more
like the sun and the moon. 
WORF: I see. Masaka and Korgano switching positions. The sun setting
and the moon rising. 
PICARD: Exactly. Like two powerful rulers changing places in a
continuous cycle. 
TROI: And like the sun and the moon, only one of them can be in
ascendance at any given time. 
PICARD: If we can find Korgano in the archive and bring him out, then
perhaps he could force Masaka to leave. 
WORF: But would we be any better off with him? 
PICARD: Ihat and the others didn't seem to be frightened of Korgano. 
(the room shake) 
TROI: Sir. 
PICARD: Masaka. 
(Data sits on the throne) 
PICARD: Masaka, I am Captain Jean-Luc Picard of the Federation Starship

DATA-MASAKA: Go away. 
PICARD: Please, hear us. Your archive is destroying 
DATA-MASAKA: I do not hear you. 
WORF: She will not even listen to us. 
PICARD: Then we will have to find someone too whom she will listen.

[Bridge]

LAFORGE: I've found it, Captain. This is the only
place in the archive where Korgano's moon symbol appears by itself, not
linked with Masaka's. 
PICARD: All right, Mister La Forge, I want you to access the
transformation programme. And when you're ready, input the symbol. 
RIKER: Isn't that a little risky? 
TROI: We have no way idea what the result would be. The symbol might
generate anything from Korgano's temple to Korgano himself. 
PICARD: In one sense, Korgano is Masaka's nemesis. Whatever this symbol
represents, it could be for us a means to control her. Now, if anyone
has a better idea, I'd be happy to entertain it. 
LAFORGE: I've accessed the programme, Captain. 
PICARD: Initiate the transformation. 
(a mask appears) 
RIKER: Another mask. 
PICARD: You know, we could be going about this all the wrong way. This
is a very ritualistic culture based on symbol and myth. Perhaps we
should try to confront them on those terms. If I could somehow
incorporate myself in their ritual, then perhaps Masaka would listen to
me. 
RIKER: You're going to try to pose as Korgano? 
TROI: Captain, we know so little about this culture and even less about
Korgano. How would you convince Masaka that you're him? 
PICARD: I'm really not certain, but there are similarities between this
culture and others that I've studied. I would imagine I'm just going to
improvise. Mister Worf, what's our status? 
WORF: I estimate we have less than two hours before there is nothing
left of the ship. At least, nothing we can recognise.

[Temple]

PICARD: Masaka. 
(Picard takes his place to the left of the main throne) 
DATA-MASAKA: Korgano. 
PICARD: Are you surprised to see me? 
DATA-MASAKA: I thought I had escaped you. 
PICARD: You should know that is impossible. 
DATA-MASAKA: You are a fine hunter but I am a powerful prey. You will
never catch me. 
PICARD: Do you want to be the prey forever? 
DATA-MASAKA: I thought I was alone. I thought I would not have to share
the sky with you. 
PICARD: But without me you are not complete. I know you so well. You
live for the chase, as do I. Will you not miss being the hunter,
pursuing me, forcing me from the sky so that you can rise again? 
DATA-MASAKA: You know me well, Korgano. 
PICARD: I think that you are beginning to tire. It is difficult,
brightening the sky forever. 
DATA-MASAKA: I am getting sleepy. You always do that to me. 
PICARD: So that you can wake with the dawn and begin the hunt again. 
DATA-MASAKA: Let the hunt begin again. I am eager for that. 
(Data falls asleep) 
PICARD: As am I. 
(and Picard mask glows and vanishes, then temple reverts to)

[Corridor]

RIKER [OC]: Riker to Picard. I don't know what you
did, sir, but it looks like everything's back to normal. 
PICARD: Acknowledged, Number One. Mister Data, are you all right? 
DATA: I believe so, sir. I am not entirely certain what has happened.
Have I been dreaming again? 
PICARD: I'm afraid that will take some time to explain.

Captain's log, stardate 47618.4. Commander La Forge
has managed to disable the alien transformation
programme. Starfleet has
dispatched an archaeological team to study the archive further.

