TROI LAFORGE WORF PICARD RIKER DATABOY CRUSHER DATAIHAT

[Bridge]

RIKER: There was an emergency reported in Ten
Forward. Mister Worf's on his way. 
LAFORGE: Captain, there's some kind of energy pulse coming through the
tractor beam. 
[Data's quarters]

LAFORGE [OC]: It's overriding our control systems. 
PICARD: I'll be right there. 
DATA-BOY: (gripping Picard's wrist) Don't leave me. 
PICARD: I won't leave you. Please, let go of me. 
DATA-BOY: Does it hurt? 
PICARD: Yes. 
DATA-BOY: She's going to hurt us all. 
(he lets go) 
DATA-IHAT: Now you've done it, Captain. Masaka is awake.

[Ten Forward]

(it now contains tropical foliage and stone, and a
large version of Troi's ornament with a sun image on it. Think lost
Mayan ruins.) 
TROI: Who's this? 
PICARD: I'd say that that is Masaka. Ihat referred to her as a queen,
and it's not unusual in ceremonial cultures to find royalty symbolised
by a sun. 
TROI: You said the personalities inside Data were in awe of her, even
terrified. 
PICARD: According to Data, the sun image is also a symbol for death. 
(on the reverse of the obelisk) 
PICARD: There it is again. The same U-shaped symbol, small and
insignificant. Almost as if it's an afterthought. 
LAFORGE: Captain, this is incredible. These artefacts weren't beamed
over here from the archive. The matter here in Ten Forward has been
transformed. 
PICARD: Into living plants? How is that possible? 
LAFORGE: I'm not sure. But bit by bit, this ship is being transformed. 
WORF: We have been receiving reports from the rest of the ship. Part of
deck twelve is now an aqueduct. 
TROI: What are we being transformed into? 
LAFORGE: I'm not sure I want to find out. 
PICARD: I don't think we have a choice. We must destroy that archive.
Mister Worf? 
WORF: Sir, our weapon control systems are inoperative. However, we
could reconfigure a photon torpedo for manual launch. 
PICARD: Make it so. 
(Worf and La Forge leave) 
PICARD: There's so much here we could have learned. I really regret
losing that opportunity.

[Engineering]

(a torpedo lies on the floor) 
LAFORGE: Okay, I've locked in the targeting parameters. What's the
phase alignment now? 
WORF: Less than point seven percent. 
LAFORGE: Good, that'll do it. I'm setting the yield at maximum. 
(and the torpedo lights go out) 
WORF: Sir, the onboard power systems are not functioning. 
LAFORGE: Let's see what's going on here? 
(the torpedo is full of snakes, Masaka is on the wall monitor and there
are vines) 
LAFORGE: Something tells me we'd better get out of here. 
(flames stop them) 
WORF: Engineering to Bridge. Emergency transport. Two to beam out. 
[Bridge]

(it's dark and there are vines and stones here too)

RIKER: Maybe we'd better talk in here. The Observation Lounge has
turned into a swamp. 
PICARD: So, what's our status? 
LAFORGE: Well, so far the archive has transformed about twenty percent
of the ship. We've lost main propulsion and weapons systems in the
process. 
RIKER: What about communications, sensors, life support? 
LAFORGE: We have communications, and limited sensor control. Life
support seems to be unaffected. 
CRUSHER: I've analysed the alien plant forms. They've developed from
biological matter we have on the ship. 
LAFORGE: The stone, the artefacts, are made in much the same way,
extrapolating from the ship's own alloys. 
CRUSHER: Apparently the archive can reorder and transform molecular
structure including DNA into anything it wants. 
PICARD: So it's using our ship, our alloys, our DNA, to create elements
of its own culture. 
TROI: But why is this happening? What does the archive hope to
accomplish? 
PICARD: Well, whatever the intent that lies behind its process, I'm not
going to permit this ship to be turned into an alien city. Mister La
Forge, do you have any ideas? 
LAFORGE: We still haven't been able to cut off that beam, but I have
managed to access the archive by sending an energy pulse back along
their signal path. If I can locate the transformation programme, I
might be able to control it. 
PICARD: That's a good idea, but I feel that the answer lies there, with
Masaka. We must find her, access her. Talk to her.

