PICARD RIKER DATA LAFORGE WORF
sort death set just society won purpose recommend careful

[Bridge]

WORF: Captain, phasers are set for wide dispersal,
ten percent maximum power. The beam will automatically terminate once
the comet's core is reached. 
PICARD: Very well, Mister Worf. Fire. 
WORF: Phasers have terminated. 
(and now we see a curiously elegant alien construction, several times
the size of the Enterprise) 
PICARD: Mister Data, what are we looking at? Is it a ship? 
DATA: I do not know, sir. The object is nearly solid. It is composed
primarily of fortanium and several unknown materials. It is over eighty
seven million years old. 
RIKER: That's older than the comet itself. Could someone from the
D'Arsay system have built it? 
PICARD: There are no technologically advanced cultures in that system
now. But perhaps eighty seven million years ago, there were. 
RIKER: Why would they want to hide something like that inside a comet? 
PICARD: Possibly it accumulated those frozen gasses over time as it
travelled through space. 
LAFORGE: In any case, it's definitely responsible for the system
anomalies we've been experiencing. They're using our sensor beam as a
carrier wave to transmit information into our computers and
replicators. 
PICARD: But the question remains, why? What is its purpose? 
DATA: Captain, I believe this object is an informational archive. 
PICARD: Why do you say that, Mister Data? 
DATA: I do not know. However, I seem to have an intuitive understanding
of its function. 
LAFORGE: Data, the internal structure of that thing is pretty complex,
and it's got a repetitive node configuration which might suggest a
database of some kind, but it could be practically anything. I don't
see how you could know for sure what it is. 
PICARD: Data, do you believe that you're in communication with that
object? 
DATA: It is a possibility, sir. I recommend we run a level one
diagnostic of my positronic net immediately to determine if that is the
case. 
PICARD: Very well. Mister LaForge, give him a hand. 
LAFORGE: Aye, sir. 
RIKER: Do you think it's just trying to make contact with us? 
PICARD: Yes, it's possible. But if that is an archive from some ancient
civilisation, we should allow it to do so. But we must be careful.
Mister Worf, will you keep an eye on the sensors. If the ship is in any
danger, I want you to sever the connection immediately. 
WORF: Aye, sir.

[Ready room]

(there is a collection of new artefacts on Picard's
desk) 
PICARD: Come. 
RIKER: Captain? 
PICARD: Yes, come in, Number One. 
RIKER: We've confined the system corruption. It won't be spreading any
further. But we still have alien symbols floating around on our
computer. This is quite a collection you've assembled. I've seen these
things all over the ship. They all look the same. Primitive and
non-functional. 
PICARD: Ceremonial, and deceptively primitive. Only an advanced
technological society could have built that object out there. These
artefacts played a ritualistic role in that society, I think. 
RIKER: Do you think Data could be right? Could we have stumbled across
some sort of alien library? 
PICARD: Oh, yes, it's possible. And if so, this is a find of most
enormous significance. That library seems designed to do so much more
than simply store information. Who knows what we might learn from this?

RIKER: I keep seeing this design. 
PICARD: Yes, this symbol seems to be of particular significance. 
RIKER: What do you think it means? 
PICARD: The concept of the four cardinal compass directions is quite
common in many different cultures. 
RIKER: The words that Data recognised in the computer, boundary,
border, road, they were all arranged in this design. 
PICARD: Well, perhaps the artefacts that all have this compass symbol
belong to the same theme, movement. Finding a direction, travelling a
path, crossing a boundary. 
RIKER: And death? One of the symbols was death. 
PICARD: The ultimate boundary. 
PICARD: I've seen this symbol everywhere too, but much less prominently
displayed. It's always in the background, smaller than the others. 
(a straight line with a hemisphere below it showing a semicircle with
radiant lines - half a sun? ) 
RIKER: What do you think it represents? 
PICARD: I have no idea.

