PICARD [OC] TROI KWAN [on monitor] LAFORGE WORF PICARD CALLOWAY LAFORGE [OC] RIKER DATA
good pain bedside parents notify lose world grew left

[Ready room]

RIKER: A few more seconds I could've saved his life

WORF: Commander, you did everything you could. It was not your fault. 
RIKER: It was strange. I felt as if he didn't even recognise me,
although I was with him just the other day when I supervised the tube
refit. 
PICARD: How did he seem then? 
RIKER: Fine. I complimented him on getting the refit done faster than
expected. He was pleased that I'd noticed. 
TROI: I met with him about six weeks ago, during the crew evaluations.
He was very positive. He was looking forward to being posted to the
nacelle tube. 
RIKER: He was a good officer with a fine career ahead of him. I don't
understand why he wanted 
PICARD: In my years as a Starship Captain, I've had to notify many
parents of the loss of loved ones, but never before a suicide. I would
like to be able to offer Lieutenant Kwan's parents some explanation of
what happened, to try to help them make sense of this. 
WORF: Maybe he left a message of some kind, explaining why he did it. 
PICARD: I would like the two of you to piece together a picture of his
last few days. 
TROI: If he made any personal logs, it might be helpful to look through
them. 
PICARD: You're authorised to do so. 
(Troi and Worf leave) 
LAFORGE [OC]: La Forge to Captain. 
PICARD: Go ahead.

[Engineering]

LAFORGE: I've just finished my damage assessment.
We should be able to get underway I'd say within the hour. 
PICARD [OC]: Mister La Forge

[Ready room]

PICARD: The medical situation on Barson Two has
worsened. Starfleet has given us permission to exceed warp speed
limitations so as to get back on schedule.

[Engineering]

LAFORGE: We'll be able to give you warp eight if
you need it. 
PICARD [OC]: Acknowledged. 
DATA: Geordi, would you agree that the instinct for self-preservation
is shared by most life forms? 
LAFORGE: I'd say it's probably the most basic instinct, Data. 
DATA: That being the case, I find it difficult to understand why
someone would deliberately terminate their own existence. 
LAFORGE: I don't know, Data. All I can think is that maybe Lieutenant
Kwan felt that there was something wrong in his life, something he felt
powerless to fix. 
DATA: I believe I understand. I have been in a similar situation. 
LAFORGE: Really? 
DATA: The first months following my activation were a difficult period
for me. There were many problems associated with my becoming sentient. 
LAFORGE: Because your neural net was still forming. 
DATA: As I acquired new skills, neural pathways would form replacing
other less complex pathways. It was very disorienting. 
LAFORGE: I bet. 
DATA: As my systems grew in complexity, it became increasingly
difficult to integrate new pathways into my existing neural net. The
probability of cascade failure grew with each additional pathway. I
came to the conclusion it would be safer and easier to shut myself down
and start again. 
LAFORGE: Yeah, but if you had done that, you wouldn't have remembered
any of the things that had happened to you. 
DATA: In a way, it would have been like committing suicide. 
LAFORGE: So what did you do? 
DATA: I decided against the procedure. I chose instead to treat the
problems I was having with my systems as challenges to overcome, rather
than obstacles to be avoided. 
LAFORGE: Great way of looking at it, Data. I wish Lieutenant Kwan had
been able to look at his problems the same way.

[Kwan's quarters]

WORF: This is a Napean design. 
TROI: His mother's Napean, his father's human. It all looks so normal.
For some reason I half expected the place to be a mess. 
WORF: Yes. It is strange to think that someone could have considered
ending his life and yet give no outward sign. Just before he jumped, he
seemed almost calm. 
TROI: Well, he must have been in a lot of pain to do what he did. It
could be that the prospect of ending the pain felt like a great relief.

(Troi picks up a photograph on the bedside table) 
TROI: This is Ensign Calloway, isn't it? 
WORF: Yes, she is a medical technician in Sickbay. 
TROI: It's always hard to lose someone you care about, but to lose them
like this? 
WORF: We should check his personal logs. 
TROI: This is his last entry. He made it before going on duty this
morning. 
KWAN [on monitor]: Personal log, stardate 47622.1. We finally finished
the nacelle tube refit last night. After pulling two double shifts in a
row, I'm really looking forward to spending some time with Maddy. 
TROI: Ensign Calloway. That doesn't sound like a man who's planning on
taking his own life. 
WORF: No. No, it does not. 
[Crusher's office]

CALLOWAY: I can't believe he's really gone. I keep
thinking he's going to show up and tell me there's been some kind of
terrible misunderstanding. 
TROI: I thought you might like to know that in his personal logs, Dan
talked about you a great deal. He loved you very much. 
CALLOWAY: If that's true, then how could he leave me like this? 
TROI: That's what I'm trying to find out. I know it's hard to talk
right now, but it would be very helpful if you could tell me a few
things about him. When was the last time you saw him? 
CALLOWAY: Two nights ago. We were planning our next shore leave
together. 
TROI: Did he mention anything that had happened recently, anything that
might have upset him? 
CALLOWAY: No, not really. He did say something about work, about
Lieutenant Nara, but it wasn't anything serious. 
TROI: Nara. She's his superior officer in the nacelle tube? 
CALLOWAY: Yes. Dan sensed that she, well, that she felt threatened by
him. That she thought he was after her position. 
TROI: Was he prone to mood swings or depression? 
CALLOWAY: No, but he was very sensitive to other people's moods. He
used to look at me and know exactly what I was feeling. I always loved
that about him. 
TROI: Well, Napeans are partially empathic. He may have inherited some
of his mother's abilities. 
CALLOWAY: He used to tease me that when I met her, I wouldn't be able
to get away with anything. Dan and I knew each other for over two
years, but we didn't get together until a few months ago. We took it
slow. We thought we had all the time in the world. Something must have
happened to him, Counsellor. Something terrible, because it's not like
Dan to take his own life. 
TROI: I understand. 
CALLOWAY: Please, find out what it was.

