PICARD [OC] RIKER KWAN LAFORGE WORF PICARD KWAN [on monitor] LAFORGE [OC] TROI COMPUTER DATA NARA
grew pain sentient initiated forming lose 47622 parents laughed

[Nacelle control]

(there is a man poised to jump into the plasma) 
RIKER: What happened? 
NARA: (alien woman) He locked out the controls. Before we knew what was
happening, he stepped up onto the walkway. 
RIKER: (to Worf) See if you can help shut down the plasma flow. 
NARA: I'm afraid if we try to get any closer, he will jump through the
forcefield. 
RIKER: Dan, it's me. It's Will Riker. I was here yesterday, remember? 
KWAN: (alien man) I didn't want to do it. But I saw them. And they
laughed at me. They laughed. 
(Riker is on the walkway) 
RIKER: Whatever happened, we can talk about it. I want to help. 
KWAN: Stay away! 
RIKER: I just want to see your face, that's all. So we can talk. 
KWAN: I know what I have to do. 
RIKER: Dan, no! 
WORF: I have unlocked the controls. 
COMPUTER: Shutdown procedure initiated. 
NARA: There's still plasma in the injector. It'll take time to vent
off. 
RIKER: Tell me what happened. Maybe I can help. 
KWAN: I know what I have to do. 
(and he jumps into the plasma stream. Riker hits the bulkhead in anger
and frustration and despair)

[Ready room]

RIKER: A few more seconds I could've saved his life

WORF: Commander, you did everything you could. It was not your fault. 
RIKER: It was strange. I felt as if he didn't even recognise me,
although I was with him just the other day when I supervised the tube
refit. 
PICARD: How did he seem then? 
RIKER: Fine. I complimented him on getting the refit done faster than
expected. He was pleased that I'd noticed. 
TROI: I met with him about six weeks ago, during the crew evaluations.
He was very positive. He was looking forward to being posted to the
nacelle tube. 
RIKER: He was a good officer with a fine career ahead of him. I don't
understand why he wanted 
PICARD: In my years as a Starship Captain, I've had to notify many
parents of the loss of loved ones, but never before a suicide. I would
like to be able to offer Lieutenant Kwan's parents some explanation of
what happened, to try to help them make sense of this. 
WORF: Maybe he left a message of some kind, explaining why he did it. 
PICARD: I would like the two of you to piece together a picture of his
last few days. 
TROI: If he made any personal logs, it might be helpful to look through
them. 
PICARD: You're authorised to do so. 
(Troi and Worf leave) 
LAFORGE [OC]: La Forge to Captain. 
PICARD: Go ahead.

[Engineering]

LAFORGE: I've just finished my damage assessment.
We should be able to get underway I'd say within the hour. 
PICARD [OC]: Mister La Forge

[Ready room]

PICARD: The medical situation on Barson Two has
worsened. Starfleet has given us permission to exceed warp speed
limitations so as to get back on schedule.

[Engineering]

LAFORGE: We'll be able to give you warp eight if
you need it. 
PICARD [OC]: Acknowledged. 
DATA: Geordi, would you agree that the instinct for self-preservation
is shared by most life forms? 
LAFORGE: I'd say it's probably the most basic instinct, Data. 
DATA: That being the case, I find it difficult to understand why
someone would deliberately terminate their own existence. 
LAFORGE: I don't know, Data. All I can think is that maybe Lieutenant
Kwan felt that there was something wrong in his life, something he felt
powerless to fix. 
DATA: I believe I understand. I have been in a similar situation. 
LAFORGE: Really? 
DATA: The first months following my activation were a difficult period
for me. There were many problems associated with my becoming sentient. 
LAFORGE: Because your neural net was still forming. 
DATA: As I acquired new skills, neural pathways would form replacing
other less complex pathways. It was very disorienting. 
LAFORGE: I bet. 
DATA: As my systems grew in complexity, it became increasingly
difficult to integrate new pathways into my existing neural net. The
probability of cascade failure grew with each additional pathway. I
came to the conclusion it would be safer and easier to shut myself down
and start again. 
LAFORGE: Yeah, but if you had done that, you wouldn't have remembered
any of the things that had happened to you. 
DATA: In a way, it would have been like committing suicide. 
LAFORGE: So what did you do? 
DATA: I decided against the procedure. I chose instead to treat the
problems I was having with my systems as challenges to overcome, rather
than obstacles to be avoided. 
LAFORGE: Great way of looking at it, Data. I wish Lieutenant Kwan had
been able to look at his problems the same way.

[Kwan's quarters]

WORF: This is a Napean design. 
TROI: His mother's Napean, his father's human. It all looks so normal.
For some reason I half expected the place to be a mess. 
WORF: Yes. It is strange to think that someone could have considered
ending his life and yet give no outward sign. Just before he jumped, he
seemed almost calm. 
TROI: Well, he must have been in a lot of pain to do what he did. It
could be that the prospect of ending the pain felt like a great relief.

(Troi picks up a photograph on the bedside table) 
TROI: This is Ensign Calloway, isn't it? 
WORF: Yes, she is a medical technician in Sickbay. 
TROI: It's always hard to lose someone you care about, but to lose them
like this? 
WORF: We should check his personal logs. 
TROI: This is his last entry. He made it before going on duty this
morning. 
KWAN [on monitor]: Personal log, stardate 47622.1. We finally finished
the nacelle tube refit last night. After pulling two double shifts in a
row, I'm really looking forward to spending some time with Maddy. 
TROI: Ensign Calloway. That doesn't sound like a man who's planning on
taking his own life. 
WORF: No. No, it does not. 
