TROI WOMAN NARA WORF PICARD RIKER COMPUTER BARMAN CRUSHER DATA

[Nacelle control]

NARA: Can I help you? 
TROI: Oh, I didn't see you there. You're Lieutenant Nara, aren't you? 
NARA: Can I do something for you, Counsellor? 
TROI: I'm investigating Lieutenant Kwan's death, and I just wanted to
look around. 
NARA: It's such a shame. He was a good man. 
TROI: Did you notice any change in his behaviour recently? 
NARA: No. I've been going over the last few days in my mind, trying to
see if I, if I missed any warning signs. It's as if something in him
just snapped. 
TROI: How was his job performance? 
NARA: Excellent. He knew this ship better than most people, probably
because he helped build it back at Utopia Planitia. 
TROI: Did he get along with his coworkers? 
NARA: He was ambitious. He came in here with all sorts of new ideas
about how to do things. Some of them very good ideas. 
TROI: But not all? 
NARA: No. But after he settled in, we got along fine. 
(a crewman enters) 
NARA: Excuse me a minute. Feel free to look around. 
TROI: Where was Lieutenant Kwan's station? 
NARA: Right there. 
(Nara leaves with the crewman. Troi goes up the ladder to the walkway
and gets a sense of terror by the hatch. She hurries back down again.) 
NARA: Are you all right? 
TROI: I don't know. 
[Sickbay]

TROI: I don't know how to describe it. I was
suddenly overwhelmed by a flood of emotions. Fear, rage, panic. And the
sensations didn't seem to be coming from any person. They were just
there, in the room. 
RIKER: Whose emotions were they? I thought you said were alone. 
TROI: I was. 
WORF: I scanned the area. I found no anomalous readings. 
RIKER: How could you get an empathic impression from an empty room? 
TROI: I don't know. 
CRUSHER: Could the fact that Lieutenant Kwan was partially empathic
have anything to do with it? 
RIKER: What do you mean? 
CRUSHER: I'm not sure, but certainly the feelings Troi described are
consistent with suicide. 
RIKER: Could his death have left some sort of empathic echo? 
TROI: I don't see how. But if I went back to the nacelle tube, I might
get a better sense of what I experienced. 
CRUSHER: I don't think I'd recommend that right now. You're showing
elevated levels of psilosynine. 
WORF: Psilosynine? 
CRUSHER: It's a neurotransmitter involved in telepathy. The experience
overwhelmed you the first time. I think you should wait until your
levels return to normal. 
RIKER: How long? 
CRUSHER: Three, maybe four hours. 
RIKER: This time I want someone with you. 
WORF: I shall accompany you, Counsellor.

Captain's log, stardate 47623.2. We've arrived at
Starbase three twenty eight on schedule. After taking aboard medical
supplies, we will depart for Barson Two.

[Troi's quarters]

TROI: Come in. Hello, Worf. 
WORF: Counsellor. Have you found anything in Lieutenant Kwan's logs? 
TROI: Everything I've read suggests that he was well-adjusted and
optimistic. It just doesn't make any sense. Can I get you anything? 
WORF: No. No, nothing. 
TROI: Yridian tea. I've been thinking about what happened to me in the
nacelle tube. Whether it was an empathic echo left by Kwan's death. 
WORF: In the past, have your empathic experiences always involved the
physical presence of another person? 
TROI: All the ones I'm sure of, yes. 
WORF: What do you mean, sure of? 
TROI: Well, when I was a young girl, my grandfather used to tell me
stories by the fire. I would close my eyes and listen to his mind for
hours on end. 
WORF: He would tell you these stories telepathically? 
TROI: My grandfather rarely spoke. He said that was for off-worlders
and people who didn't know any better. Now the only time I can remember
his stories is when I go home and sit by the fireplace. Sometimes when
I'm alone there, it's almost as if I can hear his voice inside my head.

WORF: Yes. Yes, I too have sought visions in fire. 
TROI: I can't explain it, but it feels real to me. Just like what
happened in the nacelle tube. 
WORF: There are things we do not understand, yet they exist
nonetheless. Perhaps I should let you get some rest. 
TROI: Oh, it's all right. 
WORF: If you will excuse me, Counsellor.

[Ten Forward]

(Riker is in casual clothes with a woman. He comes
to the bar where Worf is standing) 
RIKER: Mister Worf. 
WORF: Commander. 
RIKER: Two Til'amin froths, please. 
BARMAN: Yes, sir. 
WORF: Lieutenant Corell seems to be enjoying your company. 
RIKER: I'd like to think so. 
WORF: Are you involved with her? 
RIKER: I'm not sure yet. Why, are you interested? 
WORF: No. But if I were, I would of course discuss the situation with
you before proceeding further. 
RIKER: I appreciate it, but that really wouldn't be necessary. 
WORF: I mean I would never want to come between you and someone you are
involved with, or had ever been involved with. 
RIKER: Is there someone in particular that you're talking about? 
WORF: No. Is there someone in particular you would rather I not be
involved with? 
RIKER: Mister Worf, you sound like a man who's asking his friend if he
can start dating his sister. 
WORF: No, no, I was merely. Never mind. Excuse me, sir.

[Nacelle control]

(Troi goes up to the hatch again) 
TROI: Could you open this door for me? 
WORF: Yes, but only for a short time. After ninety seconds the plasma
venting system will engage to prevent degradation of the forcefield. 
TROI: I just want to take a quick look. 
WORF: May I ask what you're looking for? 
TROI: I'm not sure. 
(the hatch rises and the stream of energy is visible) 
COMPUTER: Warning plasma venting system will engage in ninety seconds. 
WOMAN: No! No, no, please. Please, please. No! Don't! No! 
COMPUTER: Warning. Plasma venting system will engage in eighty seconds.

(a man is staring at her) 
TROI: Worf? 
(a toolbox is present labelled Utopia Planetia - and the nacelle is not
completed) 
TROI: Worf? 
(Troi goes back down the ladder and hears laughter from the junction
room. She opens the door to see another man and the woman kissing. They
laugh at her) 
WORF: Counsellor, are you all right? 
(the room is back as it should be) 
TROI: Let's get out of here. 
[Observation lounge]

PICARD: Do you remember anything else? 
TROI: Yes, I think I do. There was a tool crate on the floor. It was
labeled Utopia Planitia. 
DATA: The shipyard where the Enterprise was built. 
PICARD: Clearly this was much more than an empathic echo. It seems that
you were actually seeing something that happened in the control room
eight years ago. 
TROI: Everyone was looking directly at me, but it was as though I was
seeing through someone else's eyes. 
DATA: Lieutenant Kwan was partially empathic. 
CRUSHER: Maybe you were seeing it through his eyes? 
TROI: It's possible, but I don't see how it could have happened. 
PICARD: Well, putting that on one side for the moment, let's assume
that by some unexplained phenomenon, you witnessed an event that
occurred to Lieutenant Kwan. Those faces that you saw. Did you
recognise any of them? 
TROI: I've never seen the woman before, or the man who was with her.
But there was someone else there. A man. He was staring at me in the
most peculiar way. I think he had reddish hair. And he did seem
familiar to me. But it's all so hazy. It's like trying to remember a
dream. 
PICARD: There was a woman who was frightened. And then you saw her
again, laughing, presumably at Lieutenant Kwan. 
CRUSHER: What does it all mean? 
TROI: I don't know, but something terrible happened in there. I felt
it. 
PICARD: Counsellor, I want you to look through the personnel files of
Utopia Planitia. See if you can recognise any of those faces. 
TROI: If only I could go back to the control room without being
overwhelmed by the experience. It might help me remember some detail
that might be relevant. 
CRUSHER: I could give you an inhibitor that would slow the brain's
production of psilosynine. That might be able to suppress your empathic
abilities and make the experience more manageable. It would take about
sixteen hours to synthesise the inhibitor. 
TROI: I'd like to try that. 
PICARD: Very well, Counsellor. 
