TROI LAFORGE WORF PICARD CALLOWAY PIERCE COMPUTER DATA
ago right force ladder stop evidence born delta fragments

[Corridor]

(Troi gets to Calloway's quarters and decides
against ringing the bell) 
TROI: Security override, authorisation Troi Delta two nine.

[Calloway's quarters]

(Worf and Calloway are embracing as Troi enters.
Calloway starts laughing, then Worf.) 
TROI: Stop it. Stop it! Stop it! 
(Deanna grabs a convenient phaser and shoots Worf) 
CALLOWAY: He's dead! You killed him! 
TROI: No! No!

[Corridor]

PIERCE: You know what you have to do. 
[Jefferies tube]

(Troi climbs the ladder) 
[Nacelle control]

(Troi runs up the ladder to the walkway. The hatch
opens and the plasma stream is in full flow) 
TROI: I know what I have to do. 
(Troi step up to the edge and Worf pulls her back) 
WORF: What are you doing? 
COMPUTER: Warning. Plasma venting system will engage in seventy
seconds. 
TROI: You're alive! You're all right! 
(Troi hugs Worf with relief and joy) 
[Observation lounge]

WORF: I opened the maintenance door at Counsellor
Troi's request, then turned to see her standing too close to the force
field. 
TROI: It all seemed so real to me. I can't believe that everything I
experienced happened in just those few seconds. 
DATA: It appears Counsellor was correct. Pierce was partially
telepathic. His maternal grandmother was born on Betazed. 
PICARD: What else have you found out? 
DATA: According to Starfleet records, Pierce and the other persons
Counsellor Troi identified, were killed in an accidental plasma
discharge eight years ago. Their bodies were never found. 
TROI: I don't believe it was an accident. I think Lieutenant Pierce
found out the other two were having an affair. He lost control and he
killed them both. Afterwards, he probably activated the plasma stream
and then threw himself into it. 
WORF: The plasma discharge would have obliterated any evidence that it
was murder. 
(La Forge enters) 
LAFORGE: I scanned behind the panel Counsellor Troi asked me to. I
didn't find any bone fragments but I did find some traces of cellular
residue showing some kind of psionic signature. 
TROI: It may be that when Lieutenant Pierce was struck by the plasma
stream, the subspace energy present there imprinted his empathic
pattern into the residue. 
LAFORGE: Kind of like a psychic photograph. 
TROI: That's what triggered my hallucination. My mind must have taken
elements from my own life and then created a situation that in many
ways mirrored what happened to Pierce. If you hadn't been there, I
would have jumped just like he did.

