TROI WORF PICARD PIERCE CRUSHER DATA

[Observation lounge]

PICARD: Do you remember anything else? 
TROI: Yes, I think I do. There was a tool crate on the floor. It was
labeled Utopia Planitia. 
DATA: The shipyard where the Enterprise was built. 
PICARD: Clearly this was much more than an empathic echo. It seems that
you were actually seeing something that happened in the control room
eight years ago. 
TROI: Everyone was looking directly at me, but it was as though I was
seeing through someone else's eyes. 
DATA: Lieutenant Kwan was partially empathic. 
CRUSHER: Maybe you were seeing it through his eyes? 
TROI: It's possible, but I don't see how it could have happened. 
PICARD: Well, putting that on one side for the moment, let's assume
that by some unexplained phenomenon, you witnessed an event that
occurred to Lieutenant Kwan. Those faces that you saw. Did you
recognise any of them? 
TROI: I've never seen the woman before, or the man who was with her.
But there was someone else there. A man. He was staring at me in the
most peculiar way. I think he had reddish hair. And he did seem
familiar to me. But it's all so hazy. It's like trying to remember a
dream. 
PICARD: There was a woman who was frightened. And then you saw her
again, laughing, presumably at Lieutenant Kwan. 
CRUSHER: What does it all mean? 
TROI: I don't know, but something terrible happened in there. I felt
it. 
PICARD: Counsellor, I want you to look through the personnel files of
Utopia Planitia. See if you can recognise any of those faces. 
TROI: If only I could go back to the control room without being
overwhelmed by the experience. It might help me remember some detail
that might be relevant. 
CRUSHER: I could give you an inhibitor that would slow the brain's
production of psilosynine. That might be able to suppress your empathic
abilities and make the experience more manageable. It would take about
sixteen hours to synthesise the inhibitor. 
TROI: I'd like to try that. 
PICARD: Very well, Counsellor. 
[Bridge]

(Troi is ploughing through personnel files on the
science station - Guy Vardeman is masquerading as Darien Wallace) 
WORF: I apologise for being late. The viral medicines we are
transporting to Barson Two require special security measures to insure
they are properly contained. Have you found anything? 
TROI: No. There were literally thousands of people involved in building
the Enterprise. 
WORF: Perhaps if you should try to narrow the search parameters. 
TROI: I think I have. The man who looked familiar to me may have served
on board the Enterprise in the last seven years, so I've asked the
computer to limit its search to personnel who served at Utopia Planitia
and on the Enterprise. 
TROI: Ensign Salvatore. He transferred over a year ago. Lieutenant
Ziff. She's in Quantum mechanics. That's him. 
WORF: Lieutenant Walter Pierce. 
TROI: I remember now. He came on board about six months ago. I think
he's in Engineering. 
[Engineering]

WORF: You were Lieutenant Kwan's supervisor at
Utopia Planitia? 
PIERCE: That's right. I was sorry to hear what happened. 
TROI: Did you ever spend time in the nacelle control room while it was
under construction? 
PIERCE: I worked all over the ship. In fact, I remember running a power
conduit right behind this wall here. 
TROI: Were you ever in the nacelle room at the same time as Lieutenant
Kwan? 
PIERCE: It was a long time ago. People were working all over the place.

WORF: So you do not remember? 
PIERCE: I'm sorry, I don't. 
TROI: Do you recall if anything unusual happened there? 
PIERCE: How do you mean? 
TROI: An altercation, perhaps. Possibly involving Lieutenant Kwan. 
PIERCE: No, nothing like that. The way I remember it, things went
pretty smoothly. What's this all about, if you don't mind my asking? 
TROI: Not at all. When I was in the nacelle room I had an empathic
experience. 
WORF: We believe the Counsellor may have been seeing an event that
occurred eight years ago. 
TROI: And I saw you there. Do you have any idea why that might be? 
PIERCE: I'm afraid I don't. 
TROI: Lieutenant, are you aware that I can sense when someone's telling
the truth? 
PIERCE: I've heard that. 
TROI: Then I'm sure that if you remember anything that might be
relevant to our investigation, you'll contact me. 
PIERCE: Of course. 
TROI: Thank you, Lieutenant. 
PIERCE: Counsellor. 
[Corridor]

TROI: The strange thing is I couldn't read him at
all. 
WORF: But you implied that? We have played poker together many times.
I've never known you to bluff. 
TROI: Well it wouldn't be much of a bluff if you knew, would it? The
fact that I couldn't read him suggests that he has at least some
telepathic ability. 
WORF: But Pierce is human. 
TROI: That's what I don't understand. Even though I couldn't read his
emotions, I did feel that he was holding something back. 
WORF: I thought so as well. 
TROI: Maybe we should try to access the Engineering logs from Utopia
Planitia. We might find out more about him. 
WORF: There may be something in them about Lieutenant Kwan as well.

[Troi's quarters]

TROI: It going to take about half an hour for the
transmission to be completed. 
WORF: Perhaps we should continue this in the morning. 
TROI: It is late. 
WORF: Yes, and you must be tired. 
TROI: A little. 
WORF: So I will say goodnight. 
TROI: Goodnight. 
WORF: We should get an early start tomorrow. 
TROI: I think we should. I'll see you in the morning. 
WORF: Yes. 
(finally, Worf takes her hand and nuzzles her neck, then they kiss
passionately) 
(next morning, Troi is still in bed and Worf is already dressed. He
kisses her awake. I thought non-Klingon females were too fragile??) 
TROI: Hello. 
WORF: Breakfast is ready. 
TROI: That sounds nice. But it can wait. Why didn't we do this a long
time ago? 
CRUSHER [OC]: Crusher to Counsellor Troi. 
TROI: Yes, Doctor. 
[Sickbay]

 CRUSHER: I've synthesised the inhibitor. Please
come to Sickbay whenever you're ready. 
