TROI KWAN LAFORGE WORF PICARD CALLOWAY RIKER DATA CRUSHER NARA

[Engineering]

LAFORGE: We'll be able to give you warp eight if
you need it. 
PICARD [OC]: Acknowledged. 
DATA: Geordi, would you agree that the instinct for self-preservation
is shared by most life forms? 
LAFORGE: I'd say it's probably the most basic instinct, Data. 
DATA: That being the case, I find it difficult to understand why
someone would deliberately terminate their own existence. 
LAFORGE: I don't know, Data. All I can think is that maybe Lieutenant
Kwan felt that there was something wrong in his life, something he felt
powerless to fix. 
DATA: I believe I understand. I have been in a similar situation. 
LAFORGE: Really? 
DATA: The first months following my activation were a difficult period
for me. There were many problems associated with my becoming sentient. 
LAFORGE: Because your neural net was still forming. 
DATA: As I acquired new skills, neural pathways would form replacing
other less complex pathways. It was very disorienting. 
LAFORGE: I bet. 
DATA: As my systems grew in complexity, it became increasingly
difficult to integrate new pathways into my existing neural net. The
probability of cascade failure grew with each additional pathway. I
came to the conclusion it would be safer and easier to shut myself down
and start again. 
LAFORGE: Yeah, but if you had done that, you wouldn't have remembered
any of the things that had happened to you. 
DATA: In a way, it would have been like committing suicide. 
LAFORGE: So what did you do? 
DATA: I decided against the procedure. I chose instead to treat the
problems I was having with my systems as challenges to overcome, rather
than obstacles to be avoided. 
LAFORGE: Great way of looking at it, Data. I wish Lieutenant Kwan had
been able to look at his problems the same way.

[Kwan's quarters]

WORF: This is a Napean design. 
TROI: His mother's Napean, his father's human. It all looks so normal.
For some reason I half expected the place to be a mess. 
WORF: Yes. It is strange to think that someone could have considered
ending his life and yet give no outward sign. Just before he jumped, he
seemed almost calm. 
TROI: Well, he must have been in a lot of pain to do what he did. It
could be that the prospect of ending the pain felt like a great relief.

(Troi picks up a photograph on the bedside table) 
TROI: This is Ensign Calloway, isn't it? 
WORF: Yes, she is a medical technician in Sickbay. 
TROI: It's always hard to lose someone you care about, but to lose them
like this? 
WORF: We should check his personal logs. 
TROI: This is his last entry. He made it before going on duty this
morning. 
KWAN [on monitor]: Personal log, stardate 47622.1. We finally finished
the nacelle tube refit last night. After pulling two double shifts in a
row, I'm really looking forward to spending some time with Maddy. 
TROI: Ensign Calloway. That doesn't sound like a man who's planning on
taking his own life. 
WORF: No. No, it does not. 
[Crusher's office]

CALLOWAY: I can't believe he's really gone. I keep
thinking he's going to show up and tell me there's been some kind of
terrible misunderstanding. 
TROI: I thought you might like to know that in his personal logs, Dan
talked about you a great deal. He loved you very much. 
CALLOWAY: If that's true, then how could he leave me like this? 
TROI: That's what I'm trying to find out. I know it's hard to talk
right now, but it would be very helpful if you could tell me a few
things about him. When was the last time you saw him? 
CALLOWAY: Two nights ago. We were planning our next shore leave
together. 
TROI: Did he mention anything that had happened recently, anything that
might have upset him? 
CALLOWAY: No, not really. He did say something about work, about
Lieutenant Nara, but it wasn't anything serious. 
TROI: Nara. She's his superior officer in the nacelle tube? 
CALLOWAY: Yes. Dan sensed that she, well, that she felt threatened by
him. That she thought he was after her position. 
TROI: Was he prone to mood swings or depression? 
CALLOWAY: No, but he was very sensitive to other people's moods. He
used to look at me and know exactly what I was feeling. I always loved
that about him. 
TROI: Well, Napeans are partially empathic. He may have inherited some
of his mother's abilities. 
CALLOWAY: He used to tease me that when I met her, I wouldn't be able
to get away with anything. Dan and I knew each other for over two
years, but we didn't get together until a few months ago. We took it
slow. We thought we had all the time in the world. Something must have
happened to him, Counsellor. Something terrible, because it's not like
Dan to take his own life. 
TROI: I understand. 
CALLOWAY: Please, find out what it was.

[Nacelle control]

NARA: Can I help you? 
TROI: Oh, I didn't see you there. You're Lieutenant Nara, aren't you? 
NARA: Can I do something for you, Counsellor? 
TROI: I'm investigating Lieutenant Kwan's death, and I just wanted to
look around. 
NARA: It's such a shame. He was a good man. 
TROI: Did you notice any change in his behaviour recently? 
NARA: No. I've been going over the last few days in my mind, trying to
see if I, if I missed any warning signs. It's as if something in him
just snapped. 
TROI: How was his job performance? 
NARA: Excellent. He knew this ship better than most people, probably
because he helped build it back at Utopia Planitia. 
TROI: Did he get along with his coworkers? 
NARA: He was ambitious. He came in here with all sorts of new ideas
about how to do things. Some of them very good ideas. 
TROI: But not all? 
NARA: No. But after he settled in, we got along fine. 
(a crewman enters) 
NARA: Excuse me a minute. Feel free to look around. 
TROI: Where was Lieutenant Kwan's station? 
NARA: Right there. 
(Nara leaves with the crewman. Troi goes up the ladder to the walkway
and gets a sense of terror by the hatch. She hurries back down again.) 
NARA: Are you all right? 
TROI: I don't know. 
[Sickbay]

TROI: I don't know how to describe it. I was
suddenly overwhelmed by a flood of emotions. Fear, rage, panic. And the
sensations didn't seem to be coming from any person. They were just
there, in the room. 
RIKER: Whose emotions were they? I thought you said were alone. 
TROI: I was. 
WORF: I scanned the area. I found no anomalous readings. 
RIKER: How could you get an empathic impression from an empty room? 
TROI: I don't know. 
CRUSHER: Could the fact that Lieutenant Kwan was partially empathic
have anything to do with it? 
RIKER: What do you mean? 
CRUSHER: I'm not sure, but certainly the feelings Troi described are
consistent with suicide. 
RIKER: Could his death have left some sort of empathic echo? 
TROI: I don't see how. But if I went back to the nacelle tube, I might
get a better sense of what I experienced. 
CRUSHER: I don't think I'd recommend that right now. You're showing
elevated levels of psilosynine. 
WORF: Psilosynine? 
CRUSHER: It's a neurotransmitter involved in telepathy. The experience
overwhelmed you the first time. I think you should wait until your
levels return to normal. 
RIKER: How long? 
CRUSHER: Three, maybe four hours. 
RIKER: This time I want someone with you. 
WORF: I shall accompany you, Counsellor.

Captain's log, stardate 47623.2. We've arrived at
Starbase three twenty eight on schedule. After taking aboard medical
supplies, we will depart for Barson Two.

[Troi's quarters]

TROI: Come in. Hello, Worf. 
WORF: Counsellor. Have you found anything in Lieutenant Kwan's logs? 
TROI: Everything I've read suggests that he was well-adjusted and
optimistic. It just doesn't make any sense. Can I get you anything? 
WORF: No. No, nothing. 
TROI: Yridian tea. I've been thinking about what happened to me in the
nacelle tube. Whether it was an empathic echo left by Kwan's death. 
WORF: In the past, have your empathic experiences always involved the
physical presence of another person? 
TROI: All the ones I'm sure of, yes. 
WORF: What do you mean, sure of? 
TROI: Well, when I was a young girl, my grandfather used to tell me
stories by the fire. I would close my eyes and listen to his mind for
hours on end. 
WORF: He would tell you these stories telepathically? 
TROI: My grandfather rarely spoke. He said that was for off-worlders
and people who didn't know any better. Now the only time I can remember
his stories is when I go home and sit by the fireplace. Sometimes when
I'm alone there, it's almost as if I can hear his voice inside my head.

WORF: Yes. Yes, I too have sought visions in fire. 
TROI: I can't explain it, but it feels real to me. Just like what
happened in the nacelle tube. 
WORF: There are things we do not understand, yet they exist
nonetheless. Perhaps I should let you get some rest. 
TROI: Oh, it's all right. 
WORF: If you will excuse me, Counsellor.

