PICARD DATA
bridge eyes room power developed air way ready got

[Troi's quarters]

(it's tropical inside, water is dripping from the
ceiling) 
PICARD: The environmental settings in these quarters have been altered.
Data, over here. 
(They go into the bathroom. Troi is underwater so Picard pulls her out)

PICARD: Deanna. 
(she starts gasping.) 
PICARD: What's happened to her? 
DATA: Her DNA is in a state of ribocyatic flux. Her genetic codes are
being re-sequenced and her cells are mutating as a result. At a
fundamental level, sir, she is no longer human. 
PICARD: What is she? 
DATA: Her respiratory tissue has become capable of metabolising both
water and air, and her eyes have developed nictitating membranes. I
believe she is amphibian, sir. 
PICARD: She has been injured. 
DATA: Yes, sir. There's Klingon DNA in the wound. It is saliva. 
PICARD: Are you saying she's been bitten? 
DATA: It would appear so. 
(Deanna go back underwater) 
DATA: I will need to run a full biospectral analysis. 
PICARD: First we've got to get the ship under control. Let's go to the
Bridge.

[Bridge]

(Dern is dead, with scratches across his chest) 
DATA: His upper spinal column has been broken in three places. 
PICARD: It looks like he's been attacked by some sort of animal. 
DATA: Yes, sir. 
PICARD: Has his DNA been changed as well? 
DATA: Yes, sir. However, it was in its initial stages when he died.
Captain, I am picking up one thousand and eleven individual life forms
within the ship. All exhibit a similar genetic flux to the one we
observed in Counsellor Troi. 
PICARD: So the entire ship has been affected. 
DATA: Most of the lifeforms are scattered throughout the ship. However,
there are several large concentrations in the arboretum and the aquatic
lab. 
PICARD: I've regained attitude control for the ship, but main power is
still offline. It looks as though the entire power transfer grid has
been destroyed. 
(there's thumping from the ready room)

[Ready room]

(Riker is trying to get at Livingston the fish.
He's hairy and brutish and his uniform has split at the shoulders) 
PICARD: Will? 
DATA: Captain. His cranial plates have thickened by twenty percent. His
brain is much smaller, sir. I do not believe he can comprehend our
language. 
PICARD: Perhaps we can find a way to communicate. Will, can you
understand what it is that 
(Riker attacks Picard and Data stuns him using two shots) 
PICARD: He looks almost proto-human. 
DATA: Yes, sir. His DNA would seem to confirm that observation.
Captain, I believe the crew is de-evolving.

