PICARD DATA
actual look process setting predators corridor sense think really

[Sickbay]

(Alyssa the ape is on a biobed and Picard is biting
his nails) 
DATA: Captain, I have analysed Nurse Ogawa's embryo. It has been
unaffected by the virus. I believe I can use her amniotic fluid as a
template for a retrovirus. It would neutralise the synthetic T-cell,
and re-establish the original genetic patterns of each host. 
PICARD: How soon can you do that? 
DATA: It will not take long to isolate the appropriate genetic
material. I will need to get the Sickbay computer back on 
(something tries to batter down the door) 
PICARD: What was that? 
DATA: It is large. Approximately two hundred kilograms. It is heavily
armored with an exoskeleton. Life signs appear to be Klingon. 
PICARD: Worf. 
(the door starts to buckle) 
PICARD: Set your phaser to heavy stun. 
DATA: We cannot be certain a stun setting will have any effect on him.
A higher setting may kill him. 
(the wide shot shows Riker and Troi are also on biobeds) 
PICARD: Listen to that. He sounds very angry, really, really
aggressive. What do you think he wants? Do you think he's responding to
some predatory instinct? Do you think he see us as prey? 
DATA: There are crewmembers in the corridors and other sections of the
ship. It would be much easier for him to capture and consume one of
them, than to attempt to break through a door. 
PICARD: Then what does he want? Predators use vocalisations to frighten
other predators and to mark territory, and to commence mating process.
A mating process. Counsellor Troi was bitten by a Klingon but not in a
place that might be life-threatening. Nowhere near a major artery or
organ. Data, look at this. Look at this injury. This wound was never
intended to give her any kind of serious harm. 
DATA: Captain, what are you suggesting? 
PICARD: Is it possible that Worf could see Counsellor Troi as his mate?

DATA: If that is true, he must be trying to reach her now. 
PICARD: Well, we can't just leave. We have to stay here and protect
her. And we have to keep on working on the retrovirus. If we could
distract him, if we could lure him away from her. 
DATA: The mating instinct is quite strong in Klingon biology. I am not
certain what would be an effective lure. 
PICARD: Klingons have got a very powerful sense of smell. If we could
duplicate Deanna's pheromones and then convince him she's no longer in
Sickbay, that she'd gone into some other part of the ship. 
DATA: I am extracting a blood sample from one of her sebaceous glands,
where the pheromones are produced. I believe I can activate the
pheromones with a bioactivant solution. 
PICARD: Can you amplify the pheromones? They need to be much more
powerful than Deanna's actual scent. 
DATA: I believe this will produce the desired effect. I will use it to
draw Worf to a another part of the ship. 
PICARD: No, no, no. You must go on working on the retrovirus. I'll go. 
DATA: Captain, that is extremely unwise. Worf may be much faster than 
PICARD: No time. No time to argue.

[Corridor]

(the terrified not-yet-a-proto-lemur sneaks out
through Crusher's office door and squirts the scent into the air,
backing down the dark corridor. The armoured monster leaves the door
and follows the trail)

[Turbolift]

PICARD: Deck seventeen. Deck seventeen! 
(the doors shut in the nick of time but it doesn't move. Worf starts
hammering at the door and Picard escapes through the roof)

