PICARD DATA
bridge biospectral power upper thousand amphibian covered gasping cells

[Corridor]

(strange calls in the air) 
PICARD: That sounds like animals. 
DATA: Yes, sir. I am able to discern over three hundred different
vocalisations. 
(something large rattles along a Jefferies tube) 
PICARD: Look at this. 
(a shed skin) 
DATA: It is composed of reptilian DNA. I believe it is an epidermal
layer that has been cast off during moulting. 
PICARD: But it seems to be humanoid. 
DATA: Yes, sir. I cannot explain it. There are no species aboard the
Enterprise that shed their skin in this fashion. 
(a little further along there is a door covered in condensation) 
DATA: Sir. 
PICARD: These are Commander Troi's quarters. Can you tell if she's
inside? 
DATA: No, sir. 
PICARD: Data, I want to have a look in here. Stand ready.

[Troi's quarters]

(it's tropical inside, water is dripping from the
ceiling) 
PICARD: The environmental settings in these quarters have been altered.
Data, over here. 
(They go into the bathroom. Troi is underwater so Picard pulls her out)

PICARD: Deanna. 
(she starts gasping.) 
PICARD: What's happened to her? 
DATA: Her DNA is in a state of ribocyatic flux. Her genetic codes are
being re-sequenced and her cells are mutating as a result. At a
fundamental level, sir, she is no longer human. 
PICARD: What is she? 
DATA: Her respiratory tissue has become capable of metabolising both
water and air, and her eyes have developed nictitating membranes. I
believe she is amphibian, sir. 
PICARD: She has been injured. 
DATA: Yes, sir. There's Klingon DNA in the wound. It is saliva. 
PICARD: Are you saying she's been bitten? 
DATA: It would appear so. 
(Deanna go back underwater) 
DATA: I will need to run a full biospectral analysis. 
PICARD: First we've got to get the ship under control. Let's go to the
Bridge.

[Bridge]

(Dern is dead, with scratches across his chest) 
DATA: His upper spinal column has been broken in three places. 
PICARD: It looks like he's been attacked by some sort of animal. 
DATA: Yes, sir. 
PICARD: Has his DNA been changed as well? 
DATA: Yes, sir. However, it was in its initial stages when he died.
Captain, I am picking up one thousand and eleven individual life forms
within the ship. All exhibit a similar genetic flux to the one we
observed in Counsellor Troi. 
PICARD: So the entire ship has been affected. 
DATA: Most of the lifeforms are scattered throughout the ship. However,
there are several large concentrations in the arboretum and the aquatic
lab. 
PICARD: I've regained attitude control for the ship, but main power is
still offline. It looks as though the entire power transfer grid has
been destroyed. 
(there's thumping from the ready room)

