TROI LAFORGE PICARD RIKER COMPUTER OGAWA CRUSHER DATA NURSE BARCLAY

[Sickbay]

TROI: Can I have a glass of water? It's so cold in
here. 
CRUSHER: Your temperature has dropped almost eight degrees. I want to
run a hypothalamic series right away. 
OGAWA: Doctor, we've had three other crewmembers complaining about the
temperature levels. Some feel like they have fevers, others are
freezing like Counsellor Troi. 
CRUSHER: Call Doctor Selar and Doctor Hacopian. It looks like we've got
some sort of viral infection going on around here. I want to check on
Lieutenant Worf. 
(at another bed, Worf is under guard) 
CRUSHER: Worf, have you had any unusual symptoms lately? Headaches,
nausea, dizziness? Worf? Worf, do you hear me? I going to run a full
bioscan. I want you to lie down. (he doesn't move.) Okay, we can do
this sitting up. What is this? (a growth on his
jaw line) Worf, how long have you had this on your neck? It looks like
it's full of some bioacidic compound, almost like a venom sac. Worf,
open your mouth. 
(Worf opens his mouth and sprays venom into Beverly's face. She
collapses, screaming in pain and Worf escapes) 
OGAWA: Get a hypospray. 
NURSE: Right away. 
[Observation lounge]

OGAWA: I managed to get her into stasis before the
venom paralysed her. She's going to need reconstructive surgery, but I
think she'll be all right. 
BARCLAY: (who can't stay still) Sir, we've analysed the venom and
compared it to the acidic compound found in junction seventeen and on
decks ten and twelve. They all have the same enzymatic composition. 
RIKER: Are you saying that Worf is spraying this 
BARCLAY: Venom. 
RIKER: Venom all over the ship? 
BARCLAY: I'd say so. 
OGAWA: Sixty crewmen have begun exhibiting strange behavioural changes.
Memory loss, fatigue, headaches. I think one thing is clear. There's
some sort of disease aboard the Enterprise and it's spreading. 
RIKER: I'm having trouble concentrating myself. It's like my mind keeps
wandering. I can't 
(La Forge runs in) 
LAFORGE: Commander, I've got seven security teams out hunting for Worf,
but for some reason sensors are having a difficult time locking onto
him. I've called for a level two security alert. Do you think we should
go to a Level One? 
RIKER: I don't know. What do you think? 
LAFORGE: I think we should. 
RIKER: Okay. Sounds good. Then you'll take care of that security thing?

LAFORGE: Yes, sir. I will. 
RIKER: Okay, I'll notify Starfleet. I'll let them know what's
happening. You have your orders. (Barclays already out the door)
Dismissed. 
(Ogawa stands, resting with her knuckles on the desk, looks around then
walks out with a very rolling gait.) 
RIKER: Computer, send a subspace message to Starfleet command. Security
channel authorisation. 
COMPUTER: Alpha four seven authorisation required to activate security
channel. 
RIKER: Computer. 
COMPUTER: Awaiting authorisation. 
(too late, he's off with the fairies)

Captain's log, supplemental. Commander Data and I
have recovered the stray torpedo after a three day search. We are
enroute back to the Enterprise. 
[Shuttlecraft]

DATA: Captain, the ship is not at the pre-arranged
coordinates. 
PICARD: Have they been delayed? 
DATA: I do not know. I am unable to raise them on any communication
channel. 
PICARD: Scan the vicinity. See if you can find them. 
DATA: I found it, sir, two light years away. 
PICARD: Set a course. 
(whoosh) 
DATA: The Enterprise appears to be adrift. I am reading power
fluctuations on all decks. 
PICARD: Life signs? 
DATA: There are life signs. However, sensor readings are highly
distorted. I am unable to identify specific lifeforms. 
PICARD: Adjust the axial stabilisers to match the attitude and rotation
rate of the Enterprise, I'm going to dock the shuttle manually. 
