PICARD DATA
bitten ceiling longer moulting tissue station pulls ship nictitating

[Shuttlebay]

DATA: Main power is offline. All systems are in
standby or emergency mode. There is no response from any manned
station. 
PICARD: Any sign of the crew? 
DATA: I cannot access internal sensors from here. We will have to go to
the Bridge. 
[Corridor]

(strange calls in the air) 
PICARD: That sounds like animals. 
DATA: Yes, sir. I am able to discern over three hundred different
vocalisations. 
(something large rattles along a Jefferies tube) 
PICARD: Look at this. 
(a shed skin) 
DATA: It is composed of reptilian DNA. I believe it is an epidermal
layer that has been cast off during moulting. 
PICARD: But it seems to be humanoid. 
DATA: Yes, sir. I cannot explain it. There are no species aboard the
Enterprise that shed their skin in this fashion. 
(a little further along there is a door covered in condensation) 
DATA: Sir. 
PICARD: These are Commander Troi's quarters. Can you tell if she's
inside? 
DATA: No, sir. 
PICARD: Data, I want to have a look in here. Stand ready.

[Troi's quarters]

(it's tropical inside, water is dripping from the
ceiling) 
PICARD: The environmental settings in these quarters have been altered.
Data, over here. 
(They go into the bathroom. Troi is underwater so Picard pulls her out)

PICARD: Deanna. 
(she starts gasping.) 
PICARD: What's happened to her? 
DATA: Her DNA is in a state of ribocyatic flux. Her genetic codes are
being re-sequenced and her cells are mutating as a result. At a
fundamental level, sir, she is no longer human. 
PICARD: What is she? 
DATA: Her respiratory tissue has become capable of metabolising both
water and air, and her eyes have developed nictitating membranes. I
believe she is amphibian, sir. 
PICARD: She has been injured. 
DATA: Yes, sir. There's Klingon DNA in the wound. It is saliva. 
PICARD: Are you saying she's been bitten? 
DATA: It would appear so. 
(Deanna go back underwater) 
DATA: I will need to run a full biospectral analysis. 
PICARD: First we've got to get the ship under control. Let's go to the
Bridge.

