PICARD DATA
core life characteristics feelings cell engineering computer sense inhibited

[Sickbay]

PICARD: This tranquilliser should keep him
unconscious for another seven hours. What have you found out? 
DATA: I have analysed Commander Riker's DNA structure. A synthetic
T-cell has invaded his genetic codes. This T-cell has begun to activate
his latent introns. 
PICARD: Introns? 
DATA: They are genetic codes which are normally dormant. They are
evolutionary holdovers, sequences of DNA that provided key behavioural
and physical characteristics millions of years ago, but are no longer
necessary. For instance, Counsellor Troi's gill slits and other
amphibious characteristics were derived from introns which still
contain amphibious codes. 
PICARD: So these introns are causing her DNA to re-combine in an
earlier configuration? 
DATA: That is correct. In her case, the DNA has created an amphibious
lifeform which became extinct over fifty million years ago. 
PICARD: And Commander Riker's introns are changing him into what
appears to be one of the earlier hominids. 
DATA: Yes, sir. I would say Australopithecine. Each of these stages is
another link in the evolutionary chain which stretches back to the
origins of all lifeforms on Earth. Because introns can include genetic
material from many different species over millions of years of
evolution, it is possible that a wide variety of transformations is
occurring among the crew. 
PICARD: What about those crewmembers who are not from Earth? 
DATA: All humanoid life has a similar genetic pattern. The virus should
work on non-human crewmembers in the same way. They are each
de-evolving to earlier forms of life on their homeworlds. I feel I must
inform you, sir, you have also been infected by the intron virus. 
PICARD: How long before I begin to change? 
DATA: According to my calculations, within the next twelve hours, you
will begin to exhibit the first signs of your eventual transformation. 
PICARD: And what will that be 
DATA: I believe you will also de-evolve into some form of early
primate. Possibly similar to a lemur, or a pygmy marmoset.
PICARD: Well, before I begin swinging through the ship looking for
breakfast, we'd better find some answers. How do we reverse the
process? 
DATA: I am uncertain. We will need to run several microcellular scans.
However, the ship's main computer has been damaged. Captain, the
computer in my quarters has an independent processing and memory
storage unit. It should not be affected. I suggest we start from there.

PICARD: Agreed.

[Data's quarters]

(mewing sound) 
DATA: It would appear that Spot has had her kittens. 
PICARD: They sound hungry. 
DATA: Yes. I am curious as to why Spot is not caring for them. 
(it's because on the carpet is an iguana with a pink collar) 
PICARD: It would seem the intron virus is not limited to humanoid
lifeforms. 
DATA: No, sir. 
PICARD: What is it? 
DATA: These kittens were born less than twenty four hours. It would
appear that Spot's transformation took place at approximately the same
time. 
PICARD: So Spot was giving birth to the kittens at the same time that
she was changing into a reptilian lifeform. 
DATA: I believe so. For some reason, the intron virus was not passed on
to the kittens. I do not know why. 
PICARD: If I remember my biology, there are several natural immune
systems that come into play in the mother's womb to protect the foetus
from viral infections. 
DATA: That is true. Placental barrier, maternal antibodies and amniotic
fluids all serve as a filtration system. 
PICARD: Maybe we could have inhibited the intron virus by using the
natural antibodies in Spot's amniotic fluid. 
DATA: It would take further research, but I believe to be effective on
humanoid crewmembers, humanoid antibodies would be necessary. 
PICARD: Then we should locate a pregnant humanoid. 
DATA: Nurse Ogawa has recently became pregnant. 
PICARD: Where is she? 
DATA: I have traced her comm. badge signal to deck seventeen, section
twenty one alpha. 
PICARD: The Arboretum. 
(ship shake) 
DATA: One of the warp plasma vents has failed. Main Engineering has
been abandoned. There is no one there to fix the problem.

[Engineering]

DATA: I can repair the damaged plasma vent from
here. 
PICARD: I'm going to check the status of the warp core. 
(it's dark, and cobwebs are everywhere. Picard looks through a window
at the warp core and something with half a face and a few compound eyes
throws itself at the glass) 
PICARD: Data! 
(it skitters away) 
PICARD: What was that? 
DATA: I believe it was Lieutenant Barclay. He appeared to be partially
transformed into an arachnid. 
PICARD: A spider? 
DATA: Yes, sir. Are you all right, Captain? 
PICARD: I have these intense feelings of fear and panic. I feel as if I
were being watched. I can't explain it. 
DATA: You may be experiencing the initial stages of your
transformation. Early primates were often prey to larger carnivores. As
a result, their instincts probably included a heightened sense of
awareness. 
PICARD: In that case, my instincts tell me that we'd better hurry.

