TROI PICARD WAKASA LAKANTA WESLEY ANTHWARA
javier watching things agreement lately reason desecrate believe sent

[Village]

WESLEY: How long have you been watching me? 
LAKANTA: Since you beamed down. 
WESLEY: Well, I'm here. What should I do? 
LAKANTA: I don't know. 
WESLEY: I thought you were going to help me find some answers. 
LAKANTA: Answers to your questions. 
WESLEY: Tell me about this Habak. You said you had some kind of a
vision there? 
LAKANTA: The Habak is holy to us. We hold our rituals and our
ceremonies there. It's sacred to us. What's sacred to you, Wesley? 
WESLEY: I don't know. I mean, I think a lot of things are important, I
have a lot of respect for things. But I don't really consider anything
sacred. 
LAKANTA: Look around us. What do you think is sacred to us here? 
WESLEY: Maybe the necklace you're wearing? The designs on the walls? 
LAKANTA: Everything is sacred to us. The buildings, the food, the sky,
the dirt beneath your feet. And you. Whether you believe in your spirit
or not, we believe in it. You are a sacred person here, Wesley. 
WESLEY: I think that's the first time anyone's used that particular
word to describe me. 
LAKANTA: So, if you are sacred, then you must treat yourself with
respect. To do otherwise is to desecrate something that is holy. 
WESLEY: Is that what you think I've been doing? 
LAKANTA: Only you can decide that. 
WESLEY: I guess I haven't had a lot of respect for myself lately. 
LAKANTA: Then perhaps it's time for your own vision quest to begin.

[Meeting room]

PICARD: Anthwara, I deeply regret that we have not
been able to reach an agreement. But, and I must be blunt, I cannot
take no for an answer. This planet will be handed over to the
Cardassian government in accordance with the terms of the border
agreement. I am very sorry, but you will have to leave. 
WAKASA: And if we do not? 
PICARD: Then I will be forced to remove you by whatever means are
necessary. 
ANTHWARA: We know you will not take us from this land, Captain. 
PICARD: I may regret doing it, but I am not able 
ANTHWARA: When you first came to us, we did not know why you were sent
by the Federation but we knew there must be a good reason. To us,
nothing that happens is truly random. So we searched for the true
reason you were sent. We did not find it until last night. Are you
familiar with the Pueblo Revolt of sixteen eighty? 
TROI: I am. Several Indian tribes rose up to overthrow their Spanish
overlords and drove them out of what is now called New Mexico. 
ANTHWARA: Ten years later, the Spanish returned to reconquer the area.
They were brutal. I would use the word savage. They killed hundreds of
our people. Thousands more were maimed. The name of one of the soldiers
was Javier Maribona-Picard. Your ancestor. 
PICARD: I'm not aware of this incident or of the man you named, and
this happened seven hundred years ago. I do not see what bearing it can
have 
ANTHWARA: That is why you have come to us, to erase a stain of blood
worn by your family for twenty three generations. 
