RIKER GUL EVEK CREWMAN WORF [OC] WAKASA LAKANTA TRAVELLER WESLEY WORF ANTHWARA PICARD TELAK [OC]
forces things make mind prepared occupy lives realise believe

[Observation lounge]

WORF [OC]: Request instructions. 
PICARD: Stand by, Mister Worf. Have your ship lock on to your people
and beam them out of there before something happens. 
GUL EVEK: My people? What about these Indians of yours? They've taken
hostages. This is our planet, Captain. We will not be chased away by
some unruly crowd. Gul Evek to the Vetar. 
TELAK [OC]: This is Glin Telak aboard the Vetar. Go ahead. 
GUL EVEK: Two of our men on the surface have been taken prisoner.
Prepare to send an armed squad of troopers to rescue them and to occupy
the village. 
PICARD: Gul Evek, those people are Federation citizens and I am sworn
to protect them. If your troops attack that village, my security forces
will respond. 
GUL EVEK: I hope you realise the consequences of Federation officers
firing on Cardassian troops. 
PICARD: Oh, yes, I do. That is why we must to stop this now, before
it's too late.

[Village]

WORF: I cannot allow you to hold these men as
prisoners. 
WAKASA: You have no authority here. 
(the fight starts with a Cardassian and Indian struggling for a weapon,
which keeps firing into the air. Then others join in. Wesley runs
forward) 
WESLEY: No! 
(and everything stops, including the Cardassian falling after being
shot in the chest. Lakanta walks over to Wesley, the only two still
moving) 
WESLEY: What happened? Did you do this? 
LAKANTA: I didn't do anything. You did. 
WESLEY: I did? 
LAKANTA: You pulled yourself out of their time. You took the first
step, Wesley. 
WESLEY: My first step to where? 
LAKANTA: To another plane of existence, another way of thinking. 
WESLEY: I don't understand. 
LAKANTA: You've found a new beginning for yourself. The first step on a
journey that few humans will ever take. 
WESLEY: Who are you? (Lakanta transforms) The Traveller. 
TRAVELLER: I've been waiting a long time for this moment, Wesley. 
WESLEY: So all those things I saw in the Habak, my father, and the
things he said to me, that was your doing? 
TRAVELLER: I merely opened the door for you. What you experienced came
from your own mind, your own spirit if you wish.
I hoped that you would open your mind to new possibilities, and you
did. You pulled yourself out of time, don't you see? You've evolved to
a new level you're ready to explore places where thought and energy
combine in ways you can't even imagine. And I will be your guide, if
you would like. 
WESLEY: What about them? I can't just leave them like this. 
TRAVELLER: They must find their own destinies, Wesley. It's not our
place to interfere. 
WESLEY: But 
TRAVELLER: Have faith in their abilities to solve their problems on
their own.

[Bridge]

(Red alert) 
RIKER: The Cardassian ship is powering its weapons and it's
transporters. 
TELAK [OC]: This is the Vetar to Gul Evek. Our troops are under attack.
They're requesting immediate assistance. What are your orders? 
PICARD: Evek, the last war caused massive destruction and cost millions
of lives. Don't send our two peoples back down that same path again.
Not like this. Now the future lies in your hands right now. Give us one
last chance for peace. 
TELAK [OC]: Gul Evek! What are your orders? Can we open fire? 
GUL EVEK: Evek to the Vetar. Lock on to our troops on the surface and
beam them aboard. 
TELAK [OC]: But, sir, they've been fired upon. 
GUL EVEK: Those are my orders! Carry them out. 
TELAK [OC]: Yes, sir. 
PICARD: Beam up the away team immediately. 
CREWMAN: Aye, sir. 
GUL EVEK: I lost two of three sons in the war, Captain. I don't want to
lose the last one. 
[Observation lounge]

PICARD: Anthwara, I want to make absolutely sure
that you understand the implications of this agreement. By giving up
your status as Federation citizens, any future request you or your
people make to Starfleet will go unanswered. You will be on your own
and under Cardassian jurisdiction. 
ANTHWARA: I understand, Captain. And we are prepared to take that risk.
Will the Cardassian government honour your agreement here? 
GUL EVEK: I believe I can convince them that this is an equitable
solution. I cannot speak for every Cardassian you may encounter, but if
you leave us alone I suspect that we will do the same. Will this be
acceptable to the Starfleet Command? 
PICARD: It will not be easy, but with Admiral Necheyev's support, I
think they will go along with it in the end. 
GUL EVEK: Then if there's nothing else, I will return to my ship. I
have a rather long report to write. Captain. Anthwara. 
(Evek leaves) 
ANTHWARA: I was right, Captain. You did not take us from our land and
you have wiped clean a very old stain of blood.

Captain's log, stardate 47755.3. The Enterprise is
preparing to leave Dorvan Five, but former cadet Wesley Crusher will be
staying behind. 
