PICARD RIKER NECHEYEV

[Observation lounge]

(tea and nibbles is being laid on) 
RIKER: Admiral Necheyev has just beamed aboard. She's being escorted
right here. 
PICARD: Good. 
RIKER: Earl Grey tea, watercress sandwiches and Bularian canaps. Are
you up for a promotion? 
PICARD: I am trying to establish a new relationship with the Admiral.
There has been a certain amount of tension between us in the past. 
RIKER: Tension is hardly the word I'd use. 
PICARD: Well, I am trying to get things off on a better note this time.
I want to make her feel at ease. I want her to feel that she's welcome
aboard the Enterprise. 
RIKER: Is there any reason she shouldn't feel welcome here? 
PICARD: We don't have to like her, Will, but we have to follow her
orders, and maintaining this atmosphere of confrontation serves no
purpose. 
(a security officer and the tiny woman enter) 
PICARD: Admiral Necheyev, welcome aboard the Enterprise. 
NECHEYEV: Thank you. You may leave, Commander Riker. 
RIKER: Thank you, Admiral. Captain. 
(Riker and Security leave) 
PICARD: May I offer you some refreshment? 
NECHEYEV: I'll come right to the point, Captain. There is a situation
that's developed on the Cardassian border that. (double-take) Are those
Bularian
canaps? 
PICARD: As a matter of fact, they are. I spoke with your aide,
Commander Wrightwell, and he said that you were particularly fond of
them. 
NECHEYEV: That was very thoughtful, Captain. Thank you. 
PICARD: Please. You were saying about the Cardassians? 
(Picard pours the tea) 
NECHEYEV: Yes. The Federation has just completed a very long and
drawn-out series of negotiations regarding the final status of our
border with the Cardassians. These will be the official boundaries. 
(she hands over a PADD) 
PICARD: I see. 
NECHEYEV: You'll notice a demilitarised zone has also been created
along the border. Neither side will be permitted to place military
outposts, conduct fleet exercises, or station warships anywhere in the
demilitarised area. 
PICARD: This border places several Federation colonies in Cardassian
territory and some Cardassian colonies in ours. 
NECHEYEV: This agreement is far from perfect. Neither side got
everything they wanted, but every side got something. And as someone
once said, diplomacy is the art of the possible. Those colonies finding
themselves on the wrong side of the border will have to be moved. 
PICARD: Well, the colonists are not going to be happy about that. Some
of them have been there for decades. 
NECHEYEV: It won't be easy, but it's a reasonable price to pay for
peace. Your mission will be to evacuate the colony on Dorvan Five. 
PICARD: Dorvan Five? Isn't that where the group of North American
Indians settled? 
NECHEYEV: Yes. They've been there for about twenty years. They've
established a village in a small valley on the southern continent. Is
something wrong? 
PICARD: Admiral, centuries ago these North American Indians were
forcibly displaced from their ancestral lands. These settlers on Dorvan
Five originally left Earth more than two hundred years ago in order to
preserve their cultural identities. 
NECHEYEV: I am aware of that, Captain. 
PICARD: You see, Admiral, there are some very disturbing historical
parallels here. Once more, they're being asked to leave their homes
because of a political decision that has been taken by a distant
government. 
NECHEYEV: An Indian representative was included in the deliberations of
the Federation Council. His objections were noted, discussed, but
ultimately rejected. Captain, the Indians on Dorvan are a nomadic group
that have settled there only twenty years ago, and at that time they
were warned that the planet was hotly disputed by the Cardassians. The
bottom line is they never should have gone there in the first place. 
PICARD: Granted, but to go to them now after twenty years later and ask
them to leave what is now their home. 
NECHEYEV: I made that same argument with the Federation Council. But it
took three years to negotiate this treaty.
Some concessions had to be made, and this is one of them. 
PICARD: What if these Indians refuse to be evacuated? 
NECHEYEV: Then your orders will be to remove them by whatever means are
necessary. I understand your moral objections, Captain. If you wish, I
can find someone else to command the Enterprise for this mission. 
PICARD: That will not be necessary, Admiral. 
NECHEYEV: I don't envy you this task, but I do believe it is for the
greater good. 
PICARD: I understand. 
NECHEYEV: And Captain, thank you for making me feel welcome. 
PICARD: You will always be welcome aboard this ship, Admiral.

