TROI WORF PICARD WAKASA GULEVEK ANTHWARA

[Meeting room]

PICARD: Anthwara, I deeply regret that we have not
been able to reach an agreement. But, and I must be blunt, I cannot
take no for an answer. This planet will be handed over to the
Cardassian government in accordance with the terms of the border
agreement. I am very sorry, but you will have to leave. 
WAKASA: And if we do not? 
PICARD: Then I will be forced to remove you by whatever means are
necessary. 
ANTHWARA: We know you will not take us from this land, Captain. 
PICARD: I may regret doing it, but I am not able 
ANTHWARA: When you first came to us, we did not know why you were sent
by the Federation but we knew there must be a good reason. To us,
nothing that happens is truly random. So we searched for the true
reason you were sent. We did not find it until last night. Are you
familiar with the Pueblo Revolt of sixteen eighty? 
TROI: I am. Several Indian tribes rose up to overthrow their Spanish
overlords and drove them out of what is now called New Mexico. 
ANTHWARA: Ten years later, the Spanish returned to reconquer the area.
They were brutal. I would use the word savage. They killed hundreds of
our people. Thousands more were maimed. The name of one of the soldiers
was Javier Maribona-Picard. Your ancestor. 
PICARD: I'm not aware of this incident or of the man you named, and
this happened seven hundred years ago. I do not see what bearing it can
have 
ANTHWARA: That is why you have come to us, to erase a stain of blood
worn by your family for twenty three generations. 
[Village]

PICARD: Mister Worf, what is going on? 
WORF: We have unwelcome visitors, sir. 
(the Cardassians have arrived) 
PICARD: I'm Captain Jean-Luc Picard of the Enterprise. 
GUL EVEK: I am Gul Evek. What are all these people still doing here?
The evacuation should be well underway by now. 
PICARD: May I have a word with you, alone? 
GUL EVEK: As you wish. Wait here. 
PICARD: It was my understanding that there would be no Cardassian
presence here for another six weeks. Your arrival here may have upset
some very delicate negotiations. 
GUL EVEK: Negotiations? The status of this planet has been settled.
What are you negotiating? 
PICARD: I would be very happy to explain that to you, but for now I
must ask you and your men to leave immediately. 
GUL EVEK: Captain, we have been sent here to perform a preliminary
survey of all the buildings and equipment being left behind. I have no
intention of leaving until our mission is complete. 
PICARD: Very well. Complete your mission. But remember, this is
Federation territory, Gul Evek, and until that changes, these people
are under my jurisdiction and I will protect them. 
GUL EVEK: Is that a threat? 
PICARD: It's a fact. Bear that in mind while you conduct your survey.

