GUL EVEK WORF WORF [OC] WAKASA LAKANTA TRAVELLER WESLEY INDIAN PICARD TELAK [OC] CRUSHER
oh things clear needed plane unruly forces got realised

[Wesley's quarters]

(Wesley is packing his bag) 
CRUSHER: Why are you doing this? 
WESLEY: I told you, Starfleet isn't for me. 
CRUSHER: Look, I may not be able to stop you from throwing away your
entire life, but you are going to stand here and explain it to me
first. You owe me that much. 
WESLEY: I saw Dad today. He told me not to follow him. 
CRUSHER: You what? 
WESLEY: I was participating in an Indian ritual and I had a vision. Dad
came to me and told me not to follow him. He said I had to find my own
path. 
CRUSHER: Is that what this is all about? A vision told you to leave the
Academy and now you're packing your bags? 
WESLEY: No. No, it's more than that. I've known I've needed to do this
for a long time. I just haven't been able to admit it to myself. 
CRUSHER: But you always said that being at the Academy was the best
thing that ever happened to you. 
WESLEY: I know. For a while it was. But as time went on and graduation
got closer, I started feeling really depressed. I thought maybe it was
the workload or the stress of being away from home, but it didn't go
away. It just got worse. 
CRUSHER: Why didn't you ever say anything? 
WESLEY: I didn't want to disappoint you or Captain Picard or my
friends. You guys were all so proud of me. 
CRUSHER: I'd be proud of you no matter what you were doing, Wesley. I
love you. 
WESLEY: I know, Mom. I guess the truth is that I was afraid of
disappointing myself. I never questioned the fact that I'd be in
Starfleet. But when Dad said not to follow him, it just made so much
sense. Everything is so clear now. 
CRUSHER: Maybe it is partly my fault. We didn't realised the kind of
pressure we were putting on you to be exactly what we expected you to
be 
WESLEY: I don't blame you at all. It is my decision. It always has
been. 
CRUSHER: You know that alien from Tau Ceti, the one who could control
warp fields with his mind? 
WESLEY: The Traveller. 
CRUSHER: He told Captain Picard a long time ago that you were very
special, like Mozart, and that you were destined for something quite
different from the rest of us. Maybe this is the first step. I love
you. 
WESLEY: I love you too, Mom.

[Village]

WAKASA: You shouldn't be here, Wesley. 
WESLEY: Why? 
(the locals are taking the Cardassians prisoner) 
INDIAN: Get down. 
WAKASA: Bring them over here. 
WORF: Why have you taken these men prisoner? 
WAKASA: This is not their world. They have no right to be here. 
WORF: The terms of the treaty gives them the right to survey this
planet. 
WAKASA: We don't recognise that treaty. 
WORF: Worf to Picard. An armed group of Indians has taken two
Cardassian prisoners. The situation is extremely volatile. 
[Observation lounge]

WORF [OC]: Request instructions. 
PICARD: Stand by, Mister Worf. Have your ship lock on to your people
and beam them out of there before something happens. 
GUL EVEK: My people? What about these Indians of yours? They've taken
hostages. This is our planet, Captain. We will not be chased away by
some unruly crowd. Gul Evek to the Vetar. 
TELAK [OC]: This is Glin Telak aboard the Vetar. Go ahead. 
GUL EVEK: Two of our men on the surface have been taken prisoner.
Prepare to send an armed squad of troopers to rescue them and to occupy
the village. 
PICARD: Gul Evek, those people are Federation citizens and I am sworn
to protect them. If your troops attack that village, my security forces
will respond. 
GUL EVEK: I hope you realise the consequences of Federation officers
firing on Cardassian troops. 
PICARD: Oh, yes, I do. That is why we must to stop this now, before
it's too late.

[Village]

WORF: I cannot allow you to hold these men as
prisoners. 
WAKASA: You have no authority here. 
(the fight starts with a Cardassian and Indian struggling for a weapon,
which keeps firing into the air. Then others join in. Wesley runs
forward) 
WESLEY: No! 
(and everything stops, including the Cardassian falling after being
shot in the chest. Lakanta walks over to Wesley, the only two still
moving) 
WESLEY: What happened? Did you do this? 
LAKANTA: I didn't do anything. You did. 
WESLEY: I did? 
LAKANTA: You pulled yourself out of their time. You took the first
step, Wesley. 
WESLEY: My first step to where? 
LAKANTA: To another plane of existence, another way of thinking. 
WESLEY: I don't understand. 
LAKANTA: You've found a new beginning for yourself. The first step on a
journey that few humans will ever take. 
WESLEY: Who are you? (Lakanta transforms) The Traveller. 
TRAVELLER: I've been waiting a long time for this moment, Wesley. 
WESLEY: So all those things I saw in the Habak, my father, and the
things he said to me, that was your doing? 
TRAVELLER: I merely opened the door for you. What you experienced came
from your own mind, your own spirit if you wish.
I hoped that you would open your mind to new possibilities, and you
did. You pulled yourself out of time, don't you see? You've evolved to
a new level you're ready to explore places where thought and energy
combine in ways you can't even imagine. And I will be your guide, if
you would like. 
WESLEY: What about them? I can't just leave them like this. 
TRAVELLER: They must find their own destinies, Wesley. It's not our
place to interfere. 
WESLEY: But 
TRAVELLER: Have faith in their abilities to solve their problems on
their own.

