WESLEY CRUSHER LAKANTA ANTHWARA PICARD
ve maybe incident interested sick home captain saw inexcusable

[Wesley's quarters]

CRUSHER: Ever since you've come on board you've
been moody, sullen and rude. What's going on? 
WESLEY: Nothing. I just want to be left alone. 
CRUSHER: That incident in Engineering was inexcusable. 
WESLEY: That is my business. I don't need you telling me how to behave.

CRUSHER: I shouldn't have to. You're a fourth year Starfleet cadet. You
should have a certain level of maturity. 
WESLEY: Maybe I am sick of following rules and regulations. Maybe I am
sick of living up to everyone else's expectations. Did you ever think
of that?

[Ten Forward]

PICARD: I have been fascinated looking into the
history and traditions of your people, and I was very interested to
learn that your grandfather, Katowa, was the man who first led the
group of Indians from Earth initially more than two hundred years ago. 
ANTHWARA: There was great deal of opposition. Even my own father was
against it. But when Katowa made his decision, it was final. My father
never said another word. 
PICARD: It's never easy to leave one's home, the safe and the familiar.
But there are times when the greater good demands that certain
sacrifices are made. I'm sure that was something that your grandfather
understood. 
ANTHWARA: So does his grandson. There are also times when a people
sacrificed too much. When a people must hold on to what we have, even
against overwhelming opposition. What do you know about your family,
Captain? 
PICARD: Well, a great deal actually. My father was a strong believer in
passing on the traditions and history of the family. 
ANTHWARA: I would like to know more about your family. We have very
strong ties to our ancestors. We believe their actions guide us even
now. Knowing more about your family might help me to better understand
you. Besides, it is always good to understand one's adversary in any
negotiation. 
PICARD: I hope that by the end of this matter, you will no longer look
at me as an adversary. My family. Well, our roots in Western Europe go
back to the time of Charlemagne. 
WESLEY: I'm sorry I'm late. 
CRUSHER: We'll talk about it later. 
(Wesley goes and sits at an empty table) 
LAKANTA: Wesley Crusher? 
WESLEY: Yes? 
LAKANTA: I am Lakanta. 
WESLEY: It's nice to meet you. Can I get you a drink or something. 
LAKANTA: I have known that you were coming to us for the past two
years. Two years ago, I went into the Habak and began a vision quest.
While I was there I saw many things, talked to many animals, many
spirits. And I saw you. 
WESLEY: I don't think I understand. 
LAKANTA: I know why you came to us, Wesley. To find the answers that
you seek.

