GULEVEK WORF PICARD WAKASA RIKER WESLEY TELAK INDIAN CRUSHER

[Observation lounge]

PICARD: Inexcusable. You defied the orders of the
ranking officer on the scene. You put the lives of the entire away team
in jeopardy, and you made an already tense situation worse. Your
actions reflect very badly on this ship and on that uniform. Now, I
want an explanation, Mister Crusher, and I want it now. 
WESLEY: What you're doing down there is wrong. These people are not
some random group of colonists. They're a unique culture with a history
that predates the Federation and Starfleet. 
PICARD: That does not alter the fact that my orders are to 
WESLEY: I know Admiral Necheyev gave you an order, and she was given an
order from the Federation Council. But it's still wrong. 
PICARD: That decision is not yours to make, Cadet. I don't know what
has got into you lately, and frankly right now I don't care. But I will
tell you this. While you wear that uniform, you will obey every order
you're given and you will conform to Starfleet regulations and rules of
conduct. Is that clear? 
WESLEY: Yes, sir, it is. But I won't be wearing this uniform any
longer. I'm resigning from the Academy. 
(Wesley puts his comm. badge on the table and leaves) 
RIKER [OC]: Riker to Captain. 
PICARD: Go ahead, Number One. 
RIKER [OC]: Gul Evek wants to meet with you to discuss the situation on
the surface. 
PICARD: Let him come aboard. I'll see him in here. 
RIKER [OC]: Aye, sir.

[Wesley's quarters]

(Wesley is packing his bag) 
CRUSHER: Why are you doing this? 
WESLEY: I told you, Starfleet isn't for me. 
CRUSHER: Look, I may not be able to stop you from throwing away your
entire life, but you are going to stand here and explain it to me
first. You owe me that much. 
WESLEY: I saw Dad today. He told me not to follow him. 
CRUSHER: You what? 
WESLEY: I was participating in an Indian ritual and I had a vision. Dad
came to me and told me not to follow him. He said I had to find my own
path. 
CRUSHER: Is that what this is all about? A vision told you to leave the
Academy and now you're packing your bags? 
WESLEY: No. No, it's more than that. I've known I've needed to do this
for a long time. I just haven't been able to admit it to myself. 
CRUSHER: But you always said that being at the Academy was the best
thing that ever happened to you. 
WESLEY: I know. For a while it was. But as time went on and graduation
got closer, I started feeling really depressed. I thought maybe it was
the workload or the stress of being away from home, but it didn't go
away. It just got worse. 
CRUSHER: Why didn't you ever say anything? 
WESLEY: I didn't want to disappoint you or Captain Picard or my
friends. You guys were all so proud of me. 
CRUSHER: I'd be proud of you no matter what you were doing, Wesley. I
love you. 
WESLEY: I know, Mom. I guess the truth is that I was afraid of
disappointing myself. I never questioned the fact that I'd be in
Starfleet. But when Dad said not to follow him, it just made so much
sense. Everything is so clear now. 
CRUSHER: Maybe it is partly my fault. We didn't realised the kind of
pressure we were putting on you to be exactly what we expected you to
be 
WESLEY: I don't blame you at all. It is my decision. It always has
been. 
CRUSHER: You know that alien from Tau Ceti, the one who could control
warp fields with his mind? 
WESLEY: The Traveller. 
CRUSHER: He told Captain Picard a long time ago that you were very
special, like Mozart, and that you were destined for something quite
different from the rest of us. Maybe this is the first step. I love
you. 
WESLEY: I love you too, Mom.

[Village]

WAKASA: You shouldn't be here, Wesley. 
WESLEY: Why? 
(the locals are taking the Cardassians prisoner) 
INDIAN: Get down. 
WAKASA: Bring them over here. 
WORF: Why have you taken these men prisoner? 
WAKASA: This is not their world. They have no right to be here. 
WORF: The terms of the treaty gives them the right to survey this
planet. 
WAKASA: We don't recognise that treaty. 
WORF: Worf to Picard. An armed group of Indians has taken two
Cardassian prisoners. The situation is extremely volatile. 
[Observation lounge]

WORF [OC]: Request instructions. 
PICARD: Stand by, Mister Worf. Have your ship lock on to your people
and beam them out of there before something happens. 
GUL EVEK: My people? What about these Indians of yours? They've taken
hostages. This is our planet, Captain. We will not be chased away by
some unruly crowd. Gul Evek to the Vetar. 
TELAK [OC]: This is Glin Telak aboard the Vetar. Go ahead. 
GUL EVEK: Two of our men on the surface have been taken prisoner.
Prepare to send an armed squad of troopers to rescue them and to occupy
the village. 
PICARD: Gul Evek, those people are Federation citizens and I am sworn
to protect them. If your troops attack that village, my security forces
will respond. 
GUL EVEK: I hope you realise the consequences of Federation officers
firing on Cardassian troops. 
PICARD: Oh, yes, I do. That is why we must to stop this now, before
it's too late.

