PICARD CRUSHER LAKANTA WESLEY
ve things sense walls decide village got believe mean

[Picard's quarters]

CRUSHER: I just don't know what to do, Jean-Luc.
It's as if somebody took my son away and left this stranger in his
place. 
PICARD: But in a sense, that's exactly what happened. Wesley left the
Enterprise three years ago he was a boy, and now he's returned a young
man. And that can't be easy for a mother or a son. 
CRUSHER: It's gone beyond just the two of us. 
PICARD: Yes, I heard about the incident with Geordi. 
CRUSHER: Have you heard what happened at the Academy? I called Admiral
Brand today. She said his grades are dropping, that he's becoming
remote and defensive. If he's not careful, he's going to wash out next
term. Maybe you should talk to him, Jean-Luc. Maybe it's the kind of
thing a boy, a man needs to discuss with another man. 
PICARD: I don't think he wants either of us to talk to him right now. 
CRUSHER: But he needs out help. 
PICARD: Beverly, he's got to want that help. If he doesn't, then any
efforts on our part can only push him further away. He's got to work
this out for himself.

[Village]

WESLEY: How long have you been watching me? 
LAKANTA: Since you beamed down. 
WESLEY: Well, I'm here. What should I do? 
LAKANTA: I don't know. 
WESLEY: I thought you were going to help me find some answers. 
LAKANTA: Answers to your questions. 
WESLEY: Tell me about this Habak. You said you had some kind of a
vision there? 
LAKANTA: The Habak is holy to us. We hold our rituals and our
ceremonies there. It's sacred to us. What's sacred to you, Wesley? 
WESLEY: I don't know. I mean, I think a lot of things are important, I
have a lot of respect for things. But I don't really consider anything
sacred. 
LAKANTA: Look around us. What do you think is sacred to us here? 
WESLEY: Maybe the necklace you're wearing? The designs on the walls? 
LAKANTA: Everything is sacred to us. The buildings, the food, the sky,
the dirt beneath your feet. And you. Whether you believe in your spirit
or not, we believe in it. You are a sacred person here, Wesley. 
WESLEY: I think that's the first time anyone's used that particular
word to describe me. 
LAKANTA: So, if you are sacred, then you must treat yourself with
respect. To do otherwise is to desecrate something that is holy. 
WESLEY: Is that what you think I've been doing? 
LAKANTA: Only you can decide that. 
WESLEY: I guess I haven't had a lot of respect for myself lately. 
LAKANTA: Then perhaps it's time for your own vision quest to begin.

