KMTAR DATA GORTA LAFORGE WORF

[Mine]

LAFORGE: Who are you? 
GORTA: Gorta. I am Gorta. 
WORF: What are you doing on this planet? 
GORTA: I crashed here. 
DATA: Then you are denying involvement in illegal mining activities? 
GORTA: Mining? So that's what all this equipment is here for. 
WORF: We are looking for two Klingon women. Sisters. 
GORTA: Lursa? B'Etor? Do you know where they are? 
LAFORGE: Actually we were hoping that you did. 
GORTA: Maybe I do. 
DATA: Would you be willing to share your information with us? 
GORTA: My personal code of conduct prohibits sharing. But I'd consider
a trade. 
LAFORGE: Does your personal code of conduct tell you that when you're
stranded on a planet with no way off, you shouldn't try to cut deals? 
GORTA: You have a point. 
DATA: We could certainly provide passage off this planet in exchange
for information. 
GORTA: Could you perhaps fail to tell the Pakleds that we were mining
their ore? 
LAFORGE: Don't push your luck. But if you get us to the Duras sisters,
I'll see what I can do. 
GORTA: The Duras sisters. They are magnificent, aren't they? 
WORF: Where are they now? 
GORTA: Selling the ore, I imagine. They took everything. The ore, the
ship. 
WORF: And where have they gone? 
GORTA: We were going to sell the ore to a Yridian trader. We were
supposed to meet him in the Ufandi system. 
DATA: Gather your belongings. It is time to leave. 
GORTA: Like I said, they took everything.

[Ten Forward]

K'MTAR: Worf. I am sorry about what happened. I
should not have gotten so angry. It's just that I am worried about
Alexander. 
WORF: As am I. 
K'MTAR: Kurn told me that his mother actively discouraged him exploring
his Klingon heritage. 
WORF: When he first came to live with me, he knew nothing of our ways.
He often reminds me of things his mother said to him. I try not to
disregard her wishes, I want the boy to honour his mother. 
K'MTAR: Someday I'm sure he will appreciate you and be grateful for all
that you have given him. But still, compared to other boys his age, his
fighting skills are years behind. 
WORF: Yes, I know. He does not put in the time it takes to learn the
skills. 
K'MTAR: I thought that you might consider sending him to the training
Academy on Ogat. Your brother is an influential man. I'm sure he could
see to it that Alexander was admitted. 
WORF: Ogat? 
K'MTAR: I am only thinking of what is best for the boy. There, he would
learn our ways. He would live like a Klingon. 
WORF: I would like him to learn our ways. No. This is his home. 
K'MTAR: How can you expect him to lead our family when all he knows is
life aboard a Federation starship? 
WORF: He is my son. He belongs with me. 
K'MTAR: The boy is more human than Klingon. If he stays here, he will
never be a warrior. He will never be able to defend our family against
its enemies. 
WORF: Enough! Enough! Enough! The decision is mine. 
K'MTAR: Not necessarily. I would be well within my rights to invoke
ya'nora kor. 
WORF: You would question my fitness to raise my own son? 
K'MTAR: For the good of our house, yes. Worf, I beg of you. Please stop
thinking of yourself. It is Alexander we should be considering. Look
into your heart and do what is best for him.

