KMTAR WORF ALEXANDER

[Ten Forward]

K'MTAR: Worf. I am sorry about what happened. I
should not have gotten so angry. It's just that I am worried about
Alexander. 
WORF: As am I. 
K'MTAR: Kurn told me that his mother actively discouraged him exploring
his Klingon heritage. 
WORF: When he first came to live with me, he knew nothing of our ways.
He often reminds me of things his mother said to him. I try not to
disregard her wishes, I want the boy to honour his mother. 
K'MTAR: Someday I'm sure he will appreciate you and be grateful for all
that you have given him. But still, compared to other boys his age, his
fighting skills are years behind. 
WORF: Yes, I know. He does not put in the time it takes to learn the
skills. 
K'MTAR: I thought that you might consider sending him to the training
Academy on Ogat. Your brother is an influential man. I'm sure he could
see to it that Alexander was admitted. 
WORF: Ogat? 
K'MTAR: I am only thinking of what is best for the boy. There, he would
learn our ways. He would live like a Klingon. 
WORF: I would like him to learn our ways. No. This is his home. 
K'MTAR: How can you expect him to lead our family when all he knows is
life aboard a Federation starship? 
WORF: He is my son. He belongs with me. 
K'MTAR: The boy is more human than Klingon. If he stays here, he will
never be a warrior. He will never be able to defend our family against
its enemies. 
WORF: Enough! Enough! Enough! The decision is mine. 
K'MTAR: Not necessarily. I would be well within my rights to invoke
ya'nora kor. 
WORF: You would question my fitness to raise my own son? 
K'MTAR: For the good of our house, yes. Worf, I beg of you. Please stop
thinking of yourself. It is Alexander we should be considering. Look
into your heart and do what is best for him.

[Worf's quarters]

K'MTAR: Kahless was determined to teach his brother
a lesson because he had told a lie.
But Morath refused to fight him and instead ran away. Kahless pursued
him across the valleys, over the mountains, and down to the edge of the
sea. And there on the shore, they fought for 
ALEXANDER: Twelve days, twelve nights. I know, I've heard this story
before. 
K'MTAR: Alexander, it is important to tell these stories, even if we
already know them. 
ALEXANDER: Why was Kahless so mad about the lie his brother told? 
K'MTAR: It made him look like a coward. 
ALEXANDER: If Kahless would have just explained what happened, maybe
they wouldn't have had to fight about it. 
K'MTAR: You're missing the point. 
ALEXANDER: Why was it so wrong for Morath to run away? Maybe he didn't
want to fight his brother because he didn't want to have to kill him. 
K'MTAR: He ran because he was a coward. 
ALEXANDER: But how do you know that's why? 
K'MTAR: No more questions! These are our stories. It is important for a
warrior to learn how to interpret them properly. 
ALEXANDER: I'm trying to 
K'MTAR: No, your head is filled with foolish human notions about the
way things are. You are Klingon. It is time you began to act like one. 
ALEXANDER: I am part human, too. 
K'MTAR: Listen to me, Alexander. When a human looks at you, he does not
see himself. He sees a Klingon. 
ALEXANDER: It doesn't matter what I look like. 
K'MTAR: It does. You are different than everyone else aboard this ship.

ALEXANDER: That's not true. 
K'MTAR: It is. The only way that you will ever feel as if you truly
belong, is to leave here and go live with your own kind. I know a
Klingon school you could go to. You would be welcome there. They would
teach you how to be a warrior, prepare you for the Rite of Ascension. 
ALEXANDER: I don't know if I want to do that. 
K'MTAR: After you were there a while you would find that you wouldn't
want to do anything else. 
ALEXANDER: I don't want to leave the Enterprise. 
K'MTAR: Alexander, you must. Everything depends on it. 
ALEXANDER: I thought you were different. I thought you understood me.
But you don't. You're just like my Father. All you care about is me
becoming a warrior. Just leave me alone!

First Officer's log, stardate 47779.4. We've
entered the Ufandi system, where we believe the Duras sisters might
have come to sell the ore they mined on Kalla Three.

