TROI B'ETOR [on viewscreen] WORF LURSA [on viewscreen] RIKER YOG [on viewscreen] K'MTAR DATA ALEXANDER
bridge head mountains acquire thought bad succeed stardate odd

[Worf's quarters]

K'MTAR: Kahless was determined to teach his brother
a lesson because he had told a lie.
But Morath refused to fight him and instead ran away. Kahless pursued
him across the valleys, over the mountains, and down to the edge of the
sea. And there on the shore, they fought for 
ALEXANDER: Twelve days, twelve nights. I know, I've heard this story
before. 
K'MTAR: Alexander, it is important to tell these stories, even if we
already know them. 
ALEXANDER: Why was Kahless so mad about the lie his brother told? 
K'MTAR: It made him look like a coward. 
ALEXANDER: If Kahless would have just explained what happened, maybe
they wouldn't have had to fight about it. 
K'MTAR: You're missing the point. 
ALEXANDER: Why was it so wrong for Morath to run away? Maybe he didn't
want to fight his brother because he didn't want to have to kill him. 
K'MTAR: He ran because he was a coward. 
ALEXANDER: But how do you know that's why? 
K'MTAR: No more questions! These are our stories. It is important for a
warrior to learn how to interpret them properly. 
ALEXANDER: I'm trying to 
K'MTAR: No, your head is filled with foolish human notions about the
way things are. You are Klingon. It is time you began to act like one. 
ALEXANDER: I am part human, too. 
K'MTAR: Listen to me, Alexander. When a human looks at you, he does not
see himself. He sees a Klingon. 
ALEXANDER: It doesn't matter what I look like. 
K'MTAR: It does. You are different than everyone else aboard this ship.

ALEXANDER: That's not true. 
K'MTAR: It is. The only way that you will ever feel as if you truly
belong, is to leave here and go live with your own kind. I know a
Klingon school you could go to. You would be welcome there. They would
teach you how to be a warrior, prepare you for the Rite of Ascension. 
ALEXANDER: I don't know if I want to do that. 
K'MTAR: After you were there a while you would find that you wouldn't
want to do anything else. 
ALEXANDER: I don't want to leave the Enterprise. 
K'MTAR: Alexander, you must. Everything depends on it. 
ALEXANDER: I thought you were different. I thought you understood me.
But you don't. You're just like my Father. All you care about is me
becoming a warrior. Just leave me alone!

First Officer's log, stardate 47779.4. We've
entered the Ufandi system, where we believe the Duras sisters might
have come to sell the ore they mined on Kalla Three.

[Bridge]

DATA: I am detecting a vessel holding position near
the third planet. It is a Yridian freighter. 
RIKER: Put it on screen. Scan for magnesite in its hold. 
DATA: The resonance signature indicates that there is magnesite ore
present. 
RIKER: Then we're too late. The sisters have already been here. 
TROI: Somehow I doubt the Yridians are going to be forthcoming about
where they might have gone. 
DATA: Sir, readings indicate that there are only five hundred kilograms
of ore in the Yridian hold. 
WORF: There should be over ten thousand kilograms. 
RIKER: That's odd. Hail them. I'm Commander William Riker from the
Federation Starship Enterprise. 
YOG [on viewscreen]: I am Yog. Why are we speaking? 
RIKER: Our sensors indicate that you're carrying magnesite ore. 
YOG [on viewscreen]: Magnesite, yes. 
RIKER: Where did you get it? 
YOG [on viewscreen]: From a Corvallen. For a good price. 
RIKER: Where is this Corvallen now? I'm under orders to acquire some
magnesite. 
YOG [on viewscreen]: He is gone. Where? Who is to know? 
RIKER: Would you be interested in selling me the ore you're carrying? 
YOG [on viewscreen]: No, I have a buyer. 
RIKER: You haven't heard my offer. Half a gram of Anjoran biomimetic
gel. 
YOG [on viewscreen]: Done. 
RIKER: Once we verify the purity of your ore, we'll beam over the gel. 
(transmission ends) 
TROI: You're up to something. 
RIKER: Have the transporter room beam the ore to these coordinates. 
DATA: Sir, that would place the ore directly off the ship's starboard
bow. 
RIKER: I know. 
WORF: Transport complete. 
RIKER: Lock phasers on the ore and fire. 
WORF: Firing. 
(the explosion reveals the outline of) 
WORF: A Klingon bird of prey. 
RIKER: Put a tractor beam on it. 
TROI: How did you know? 
RIKER: The Yridians had only part of the shipment in their hold. I
realised we had arrived before they had completed the transfer. 
WORF: The Klingon ship is hailing us. 
RIKER: On screen. 
LURSA [on viewscreen]: Release our vessel at once! 
RIKER: I don't think so. 
B'ETOR [on viewscreen]: We've done nothing wrong. We were engaging in a
simple business transaction. 
RIKER: We know you're dealing in stolen ore. But I want to talk about
the assassination attempt on Lieutenant Worf. 
B'ETOR [on viewscreen]: What assassination attempt? This is the first
I've heard of it. 
LURSA [on viewscreen]: Too bad it didn't succeed. 
RIKER: We have evidence that you're behind it. 
LURSA [on viewscreen]: That is outrageous. 
B'ETOR [on viewscreen]: What is this evidence? 
RIKER: Beam over. We'll show you. 
B'ETOR [on viewscreen]: We'll be there. Shortly.

