PICARD RIKER DATA WORF

[Observation lounge]

PICARD: As a result, we won't be able to rendezvous
with the Kearsarge for another four days. 
RIKER: Will we be holding position here until it arrives? 
PICARD: Yes. And, as it would seem we're in for a relatively quiet
time, I shall use this opportunity to visit the Hatarian System. There
are some ancient ruins that are just being excavated. 
DATA: The delay will also make it possible for Stellar Dynamics to
complete their study of the Vodrey Nebula. 
RIKER: I'll let them know they can have more access to the lateral
sensor grid. 
PICARD: We could use this time to recalibrate the weapon targeting
array. Mister Worf? 
WORF: (comes back from wherever) Yes, sir. I will begin the procedure
immediately. 
PICARD: Very good. Dismissed. Lieutenant, could I have a word with you
for a moment? 
(Riker and Data leave) 
PICARD: I noticed several times during the briefing that you appeared
to be a bit distracted. 
WORF: I apologise. In the future, I will make sure my personal affairs
do not interfere with my duties. 
PICARD: Is everything all right? 
WORF: I am having problems with Alexander. He has made it clear he does
not wish to participate in the First Rite of Ascension. 
PICARD: Oh, I see. 
WORF: I have tried to tell him that it is an important part of a young
Klingon's
life, but he does not understand. 
PICARD: But he's had so little opportunity to spend time with Klingons.
You know, the festival of Kot'baval is tomorrow. If he could take part
in that, I'm sure he would more fully appreciate what a rich cultural
heritage he comes from. There is the Klingon outpost on Maranga Four.
I'm sure they'll be celebrating the festival. 
WORF: Yes. But the outpost is on the other side of the Vodrey Nebula.
It would take three days by shuttle to get there. 
PICARD: The Enterprise could be there in a fraction of the time, and
still be back in time for the rendezvous. 
WORF: Captain, I cannot ask you 
PICARD: Mister Worf, Stellar Dynamics would like nothing better than a
trip around the nebula. 
WORF: Thank you, sir. 
