TROI B'ETOR WORF RIKER LURSA K'MTAR
represents tried ways die weapon thought weakness cause speak

[Observation lounge]

WORF: This was dropped by one of the assassins. It
bears the crest of your house. 
B'ETOR: Ge'ko kaf'la. 
LURSA: Someone must have given it to the assassins to implicate us. 
TROI: Why would someone do that? 
B'ETOR: In order to tarnish our good name. 
WORF: You cannot tarnish a rusted blade. 
LURSA: Ji'ko to'val! 
WORF: Gir'nak tovo'sor! 
RIKER: Mister Worf. You said there was other evidence they were
involved. 
K'MTAR: Yes. On the Homeworld. 
RIKER: We'll set a course. I want this thing cleared up. 
K'MTAR: I will send a message to Kurn. He may wish to return to the
Homeworld as well. 
(K'mtar leaves) 
B'ETOR: Bet'ala nog'tor. 
LURSA: Impossible. 
TROI: What is it? 
B'ETOR: These markings represent the members of our house. This symbol
represents our father, myself, my sister. And this represents her son. 
WORF: I was not aware you had a son. 
LURSA: I do not. But I am with child. 
B'ETOR: She found out only a few days ago and told no one but me. How
can this marking be here? Where did this come from? 
WORF: I will speak with K'mtar.

[Worf's quarters]

(Worf enters to find K'mtar with a weapon aimed at
Alexander. He pulls him to the floor and is about to hit him when) 
K'MTAR: Father. Stop, I am your son. I am Alexander. 
WORF: What are you saying? 
K'MTAR: I am your son Alexander. I have come to this time from forty
years in the future. 
WORF: P'tak! Tell me the truth or I will kill you. 
K'MTAR: Look at me. When we first met you said I looked familiar. 
WORF: I could have seen you on the Homeworld. 
K'MTAR: No. Look closely. I am your son. 
WORF: If you are Alexander, you will remember your mother's last words
before she died. 
K'MTAR: I was three years old. She was dying when we found her. She
barely managed to whisper my name and then she took my hand and placed
it in yours. Then she died. And then you howled in rage and said, look
upon her. Look upon death and always to remember. And I always have. 
(Worf stops strangling him) 
WORF: How have you done this, come to this time? 
K'MTAR: I met a man in the Cambra system. He gave me a chance to change
the past. He had the ability to send me here, to this time. 
WORF: And you came here in order to end your own life? 
K'MTAR: I was hoping that I would not have to, that I could change
things, that I could change myself. But I could not. And now everything
is going to turn out like it did before. I cannot let that happen. 
WORF: But why? What is going to happen that is so terrible? 
K'MTAR: You will be killed because I was naive, too weak to be able to
protect you. 
WORF: I do not believe that. 
K'MTAR: I was there! I saw you murdered. I was to blame. 
WORF: You must not blame yourself. 
K'MTAR: You don't understand. I did not become a warrior. I was a
diplomat, a peacemaker. When it came my time to lead our family, I
thought that I could single handedly end the fighting between the great
houses. I publicly announced that the house of Mogh would be the first
to end the feuding. That there would be no more retribution, no more
revenge. You tried to warn me. You tried to tell me that I should not
show weakness, but I thought you were a foolish old man. I told you
that you were a relic from an earlier time and that a new era of peace
was at hand. But you were right. My enemies saw my weakness and moved
against me. And unless I stop it right now, that boy will see his
father
killed on the floor of the Council Chamber. 
WORF: That is why you wanted to take Alexander away. To turn him into a
warrior. 
K'MTAR: I staged the assassination attempt to try and frighten him, to
make him realise that he must follow the ways of the warrior. If I had
listened to you, if I had become the warrior that you had wanted me to
be, you would not have died in my arms. 
WORF: No. Who knows what the future will be now that you have disrupted
time? I may die tomorrow or I may outlive you. But when I die, I would
like an honourable death. And the only way that is possible is for you
accept yourself as you are, and stay true to what you believe. The
cause of peace is a just cause. The struggle must continue. 
K'MTAR: It is a futile struggle. I cannot change things. 
WORF: You have already changed things more than you realise. 
K'MTAR: The boy I was has not changed. 
WORF: But I have. You have given me a glimpse into my son's future and
I know now that he has his own destiny. And I believe it will be a
great one. 
K'MTAR: I love you, Father. 
WORF: And I you, Alexander. 
