JASON LAFORGE PICARD COMPUTER CRUSHER DATA
point food ll holodeck computer result went operate energy

[Ready room]

LAFORGE: We think we've found something, Captain. 
DATA: Bok was in direct contact with this chair for an extended period.
It is showing a distinctive subspace signature as a result. 
LAFORGE: We think he's using some sort of subspace transporter to beam
aboard the Enterprise. 
PICARD: My understanding is that such devices were impractical. 
DATA: The Federation abandoned its research in the field because the
technology was found to be unreliable, as well as energy intensive. 
LAFORGE: In order to transport matter through subspace, you have to put
it into a state of quantum flux. It's very unstable. 
PICARD: What range would that kind of transporter have? 
DATA: In theory it could operate over several light years. 
LAFORGE: That means that the probe that exploded could have been beamed
into position from some point outside sensor range. 
DATA: If Bok uses his transporter again, we might be able to trace the
subspace signature and locate his ship. 
PICARD: Is there any way we can keep Bok from beaming aboard the
Enterprise again? 
LAFORGE: I don't think there is. 
PICARD: If he has the ability to beam aboard, he may be able to beam
someone away. 
DATA: It is a possibility. 
PICARD: I'm concerned that he may try to take Jason. Is there any way
we can protect him? 
LAFORGE: You know, we might be able to keep a signal lock on him at all
times. If Bok tries to beam him away, we might be able to hold him
here. 
DATA: In order to do so, we would need to tie the ship's subspace field
coils into the transporter system. 
PICARD: Make it so. Computer, where is Jason Vigo? 
COMPUTER: Jason Vigo is in holodeck four. 
[Holodeck - rock face]

(Jason is climbing without equipment) 
PICARD: (to security) Would you wait outside? 
(Rhodes and her companion leave, then Picard climbs to join Jason on a
ledge) 
JASON: Not bad. 
PICARD: I like climbing. There's something about actually having your
fate in your own hands. 
JASON: Yeah, I know. 
PICARD: It looks as though we may have found out how to locate Bok's
ship. This could all soon be over. 
JASON: You came all the way up here just to tell me that? 
PICARD: I thought it would make you feel better. 
JASON: Thanks. That was nice of you. 
PICARD: Jason, when your mother and I parted, I lost track of her
completely. But I would like to know more about what happened to her,
if you wouldn't mind telling me. 
JASON: Like what? 
PICARD: Well, how did you end up on Camor? It's an unlikely place for a
woman and child. 
JASON: Well, you know how she was. See a stray cat, take it in. See
somebody cold, give them your coat. 
PICARD: Yes, that was Miranda, all right. 
JASON: She heard about the all children on Camor who'd been orphaned
from the Cardassian war. 
PICARD: Oh. I see. 
JASON: I was only ten when we went there. I remember her telling me all
about the boys and girls who didn't have anybody to take care of them.
So she got this big house, practically falling apart, then she started
rounding up children. Eventually, there were over forty of us there.
She called it a school. You know, she got up before dawn every day and
went to bed well after midnight. In between she never stopped working.
She taught us all how to read. And she grew vegetables in hardpan to
feed us. And she made sure we knew how to sing. It's important in a
place like Camor. And then one day she was attacked by two men in the
street in broad daylight for the food she was carrying. If she'd just
given it to them, they probably wouldn't have hurt her. But she knew
how important the food was to us. So they killed her. 
PICARD: I'm so sorry. 
JASON: Don't be sorry for me. My mother made sure that we were all
tough enough to make it. 
PICARD: Jason, isn't there some way that I can be a father to you? My
own father and I were estranged. He wanted me to stay home and tend the
vineyards and I wanted to join Starfleet. And he died before we could
come to terms with that. And I've regretted that all of my life. I
don't want the same thing to happen to you and me. 
JASON: You don't understand. I'm not anybody you'd want for a son.
Trust me, if you knew anything about me, you wouldn't be trying so
hard. 
PICARD: You're so wrong. 
JASON: Oh, really? Let me spell it out for you. I've been in trouble
since I was a teenager. I lie, I steal, I use people. I'm a criminal.
That's what your son is. 
PICARD: I know. 
JASON: You do? 
PICARD: Oh, yes, I know all about your troubles with the Camor
authorities. 
JASON: You do. 
PICARD: It doesn't make any difference, Jason. You're still my son.
And, like it or not, I'm your father. I don't know what that means, but
it means something. There's some connection. 
JASON: Yeah. 
PICARD: But one thing is clear. You'll never look at your hairline
again in the same way. 
[Crusher's office]

PICARD: You wanted to see me. 
CRUSHER: Yes. It's about Jason. I've finished the microcellular scan I
was running. There's something you need to know, 
