PICARD CRUSHER DATA LAFORGE BIRTA

[Bridge]

LAFORGE: We managed to shut down the probe's power
systems so we could beam it aboard. It's not going to be easy to figure
out where this thing came from. 
DATA: Bok took the precaution of encrypting the probe's navigational
systems so that we would be unable to decipher its flight path. 
LAFORGE: We ran an analysis of the probe's hull. From the energy
signatures and particle deposits we found, it looks like it travelled
through a dichromic nebula, was exposed to an intensive gravimetric
distortion, and passed within one light year of a class four pulsar. 
DATA: Those phenomena are relatively common. We would need to identify
at least one of them specifically in order to postulate a flight path. 
PICARD: Understood. 
DATA: Captain, incoming message from DaiMon Birta. 
PICARD: Put it on screen. Thank you for taking the time to talk to us,
DaiMon. 
BIRTA [on viewscreen]: I understand you have a problem. 
PICARD: Yes, it concerns DaiMon Bok. 
BIRTA [on viewscreen]: Bok is no DaiMon. He was relieved of command six
years ago. He was unstable, dangerous. We had to confine him to Rog
Prison. 
PICARD: But he's no longer there? 
BIRTA [on viewscreen]: He was able to buy himself out about two years
ago. 
PICARD: I see. Do you know his whereabouts now? 
BIRTA [on viewscreen]: I understand he was seen in the Dorias cluster
not too long ago. 
PICARD: But that cluster consists of more than twenty star systems. 
BIRTA [on viewscreen]: You don't have to thank me, Captain. 
(transmission ends) 
LAFORGE: Believe it or not, Captain, that might've given us the fix we
needed. There's a nebula in the Dorias cluster that matches the same
particle signature we found on the probe. 
DATA: There is a class four pulsar three light years from the nebula.
My calculations indicate the probe was launched in the Xendi Kabu
system. 
PICARD: Plot a course. Take us out of orbit.

[Crusher's office]

CRUSHER: Jean-Luc, come in. 
PICARD: I think I need to talk to a parent. 
CRUSHER: So, what's he like? 
PICARD: I'm not sure that I can tell you. He puts up so many barriers I
have no idea what's underneath. 
CRUSHER: Keep in mind he's had twenty years to be angry that his father
wasn't there. It's going to take some time to get over those feelings.
But I do think it's possible. 
PICARD: Perhaps. But surely it would be wrong to force the issue. My
sense is that he's a very independent young man. Perhaps it would be
best if I left him alone. Let him come to me if he wants to. 
CRUSHER: Maybe you're right. But I think you should consider this. Are
you doing the best thing for Jason or what's easiest for you?

