PICARD BIRTA [on viewscreen] DATA LAFORGE JASON
stone okay gorlan analysis son settle calculations mother got

[Picard's quarters]

JASON: What's all this? 
PICARD: Oh, theses are archaeological fragments that I've collected
over the years. This is a Silvan glyph stone. And
this, this is a Gorlan prayer stick. It's really quite rare. 
JASON: Is it valuable? 
PICARD: Not really. Only to students of archaeology such as myself.
Though I did have to hand over a bottle of very old Saurian brandy for
it. 
JASON: I'd say you got taken. 
PICARD: Perhaps, but it's of value to me nonetheless. 
JASON: On Camor, something has value if you can eat it or sell it.
Everything else is luxury. 
PICARD: Would you like some tea? 
JASON: No. Thanks. 
PICARD: Something else? 
JASON: No. 
PICARD: Tea, Earl Grey, hot. I'm sure this whole thing is as much a
surprise to you as it is to me. I really want to be honest with you,
Jason. I only knew your mother for a very short time. I would have
liked to have known her better. It just didn't work out that way. You
look a lot like her, you know. It's the eyes, I think. I would like to
make one thing clear, Jason. Your mother never told me about you. If
she had, I would have been part of your life. 
JASON: Maybe that's not what she wanted. I think I'd like to go back to
the surface now. 
PICARD: I think it would be better if you stayed on board the
Enterprise until we have resolved this situation with Bok. 
JASON: What is the situation with Bok, anyway? Why does he want me
dead? 
PICARD: Years ago, I was forced to destroy a starship commanded by his
son. Bok apparently feels that it would be fitting vengeance to kill my
son. 
JASON: I can't hide forever. 
PICARD: Of course not. We are trying to locate Bok now. I want to
confront him, settle this matter. 
JASON: How long is this going to take? 
PICARD: I assure you there is no one more eager to put this behind us
than I am. 
JASON: Where do I stay? 
PICARD: We'll get you some quarters. 
JASON: Okay. Let's go. 
PICARD: Jason. Your being here? I hope it will give us the chance to
get to know each other. 
[Bridge]

LAFORGE: We managed to shut down the probe's power
systems so we could beam it aboard. It's not going to be easy to figure
out where this thing came from. 
DATA: Bok took the precaution of encrypting the probe's navigational
systems so that we would be unable to decipher its flight path. 
LAFORGE: We ran an analysis of the probe's hull. From the energy
signatures and particle deposits we found, it looks like it travelled
through a dichromic nebula, was exposed to an intensive gravimetric
distortion, and passed within one light year of a class four pulsar. 
DATA: Those phenomena are relatively common. We would need to identify
at least one of them specifically in order to postulate a flight path. 
PICARD: Understood. 
DATA: Captain, incoming message from DaiMon Birta. 
PICARD: Put it on screen. Thank you for taking the time to talk to us,
DaiMon. 
BIRTA [on viewscreen]: I understand you have a problem. 
PICARD: Yes, it concerns DaiMon Bok. 
BIRTA [on viewscreen]: Bok is no DaiMon. He was relieved of command six
years ago. He was unstable, dangerous. We had to confine him to Rog
Prison. 
PICARD: But he's no longer there? 
BIRTA [on viewscreen]: He was able to buy himself out about two years
ago. 
PICARD: I see. Do you know his whereabouts now? 
BIRTA [on viewscreen]: I understand he was seen in the Dorias cluster
not too long ago. 
PICARD: But that cluster consists of more than twenty star systems. 
BIRTA [on viewscreen]: You don't have to thank me, Captain. 
(transmission ends) 
LAFORGE: Believe it or not, Captain, that might've given us the fix we
needed. There's a nebula in the Dorias cluster that matches the same
particle signature we found on the probe. 
DATA: There is a class four pulsar three light years from the nebula.
My calculations indicate the probe was launched in the Xendi Kabu
system. 
PICARD: Plot a course. Take us out of orbit.

