JASON LAFORGE PICARD COMPUTER CRUSHER DATA
coils computer room light certain bad contact tends sensor

[Jason's quarters]

(Jason appears to be having a fit. Crusher gives
him a hypo)

[Sickbay]

CRUSHER: Have you had any other seizures like this
before? 
JASON: No, not really. Sometimes my hand shakes, but never this bad. 
CRUSHER: When did it first start to happen? 
JASON: About few months ago. Do you have any idea what's wrong with me?

CRUSHER: You have a condition called the Forrester Trent syndrome. It's
a degenerative neurological disorder. Very rare. 
PICARD: What do you mean degenerative? 
CRUSHER: If it goes untreated, it could result in paralysis, even
death. I'm going to start you on a neuro-stabilisation regimen. If
we're lucky, it will halt the degeneration, and maybe reverse its
effects. The disease is hereditary. I know your father doesn't have it.
Was your mother prone to these seizures? 
JASON: Not that I know of. 
CRUSHER: There have been some cases reported where the disease was
instigated by a random mutation. I'll run a microcellular scan and see
if that's what happened. In the meantime, I want you to try to take it
easy and get some rest. 
(Jason leaves) 
PICARD: Is he going to be all right? 
CRUSHER: I wish I could say for certain, but I'm not sure how he'll
respond to treatments. 
PICARD: I've been thinking about what you said the other day, and you
know, I think you were right. I had convinced myself that Jason didn't
want me to reach out to him. 
CRUSHER: You know, I don't think anyone is born knowing how to be a
parent. You just sort of figure it out as you go. But the one quality
that tends to be a requirement for parenthood is patience. 
PICARD: Well, I'm not sure that that is going to be enough. I've found
out that Jason has a criminal record. It's nothing very serious, it's
only petty theft and so forth, but I can't help feeling that if I had
been part of his life then he wouldn't be so troubled now. 
CRUSHER: Maybe, but why waste time blaming yourself for not having been
there? Just be here for him now. 
PICARD: And be patient. 
CRUSHER: And be patient.

[Ready room]

LAFORGE: We think we've found something, Captain. 
DATA: Bok was in direct contact with this chair for an extended period.
It is showing a distinctive subspace signature as a result. 
LAFORGE: We think he's using some sort of subspace transporter to beam
aboard the Enterprise. 
PICARD: My understanding is that such devices were impractical. 
DATA: The Federation abandoned its research in the field because the
technology was found to be unreliable, as well as energy intensive. 
LAFORGE: In order to transport matter through subspace, you have to put
it into a state of quantum flux. It's very unstable. 
PICARD: What range would that kind of transporter have? 
DATA: In theory it could operate over several light years. 
LAFORGE: That means that the probe that exploded could have been beamed
into position from some point outside sensor range. 
DATA: If Bok uses his transporter again, we might be able to trace the
subspace signature and locate his ship. 
PICARD: Is there any way we can keep Bok from beaming aboard the
Enterprise again? 
LAFORGE: I don't think there is. 
PICARD: If he has the ability to beam aboard, he may be able to beam
someone away. 
DATA: It is a possibility. 
PICARD: I'm concerned that he may try to take Jason. Is there any way
we can protect him? 
LAFORGE: You know, we might be able to keep a signal lock on him at all
times. If Bok tries to beam him away, we might be able to hold him
here. 
DATA: In order to do so, we would need to tie the ship's subspace field
coils into the transporter system. 
PICARD: Make it so. Computer, where is Jason Vigo? 
COMPUTER: Jason Vigo is in holodeck four. 
