RHODES [OC] PICARD CRUSHER JASON
ago petty figure level treatments untreated reported day really

[Sickbay]

CRUSHER: That should do it. Let's run a level three
bioscan just to be sure. 
RHODES [OC]: Rhodes to Sickbay, Medical emergency, deck nine, section
four. 
CRUSHER: Let's go. 
[Jason's quarters]

(Jason appears to be having a fit. Crusher gives
him a hypo)

[Sickbay]

CRUSHER: Have you had any other seizures like this
before? 
JASON: No, not really. Sometimes my hand shakes, but never this bad. 
CRUSHER: When did it first start to happen? 
JASON: About few months ago. Do you have any idea what's wrong with me?

CRUSHER: You have a condition called the Forrester Trent syndrome. It's
a degenerative neurological disorder. Very rare. 
PICARD: What do you mean degenerative? 
CRUSHER: If it goes untreated, it could result in paralysis, even
death. I'm going to start you on a neuro-stabilisation regimen. If
we're lucky, it will halt the degeneration, and maybe reverse its
effects. The disease is hereditary. I know your father doesn't have it.
Was your mother prone to these seizures? 
JASON: Not that I know of. 
CRUSHER: There have been some cases reported where the disease was
instigated by a random mutation. I'll run a microcellular scan and see
if that's what happened. In the meantime, I want you to try to take it
easy and get some rest. 
(Jason leaves) 
PICARD: Is he going to be all right? 
CRUSHER: I wish I could say for certain, but I'm not sure how he'll
respond to treatments. 
PICARD: I've been thinking about what you said the other day, and you
know, I think you were right. I had convinced myself that Jason didn't
want me to reach out to him. 
CRUSHER: You know, I don't think anyone is born knowing how to be a
parent. You just sort of figure it out as you go. But the one quality
that tends to be a requirement for parenthood is patience. 
PICARD: Well, I'm not sure that that is going to be enough. I've found
out that Jason has a criminal record. It's nothing very serious, it's
only petty theft and so forth, but I can't help feeling that if I had
been part of his life then he wouldn't be so troubled now. 
CRUSHER: Maybe, but why waste time blaming yourself for not having been
there? Just be here for him now. 
PICARD: And be patient. 
CRUSHER: And be patient.

