PICARD [OC] RIKER CONDUCTOR LAFORGE CREWMAN GANGSTER DATA
affected increased afford yeah completely computer easy net correct

[Engineering]

(a console explodes in front of Geordi, throwing
him backwards) 
CREWMAN: Easy, sir, easy. I've got you.
LAFORGE: I'm all right, thanks. It looks like the navigational relay's
overloaded. 
[Holodeck train]

(the conductor pulls the cord and the train
lurches. So does the ship) 
[Engineering]

PICARD [OC]: Geordi, what's going on? We just went
into warp. 
LAFORGE: We've lost engine and helm control again, Captain, but this
time, they're completely burned out. I don't know if we can stop the
ship.

[Holodeck- train]

DATA: I believe we have changed direction. 
CONDUCTOR: Now we're on the right track. Ladies and gentlemen, we are
on our way! 
(cheers all round and the gangster takes a house brick from the
engineer's overalls) 
GANGSTER: I was right. He was trying to make off with my brick. 
CONDUCTOR: You take good care of that. We can't afford to lose it. Now,
are you people going to leave or are we going to have to throw you off
the train? 
DATA: Commander. According to my tricorder, the holodeck safeties have
been disengaged. His weapon could be lethal. 
RIKER: All right, let's get out of here.

[Engineering]

DATA: The number of systems now being affected by
the nodes has increased considerably. Sensors, engines, replicators,
propulsion, they are all working together now, almost independently of
the main computer. And the nodes link them all through the holodeck. 
RIKER: But why the holodeck? It doesn't make any sense. 
DATA: Commander, I believe what happens on the holodeck has a direct
effect on the ship. When we attempted to destroy the nodes, the
characters on the train responded almost immediately to stop us. 
RIKER: And when the engineer tried to protect us, one of the characters
shot him. 
DATA: Then the conductor then signalled for the train to change
directions, and at approximately the same time 
LAFORGE: The Enterprise also took off in a new direction. 
RIKER: Are you saying the ship is under the control of the holodeck? 
DATA: Not precisely. Geordi, does the configuration of connection nodes
look familiar to you? 
LAFORGE: Yeah. Yeah, it looks a little like the structure of your
positronic brain. 
DATA: That is correct. It would appear that the nodes are in the
process of creating a rudimentary neural net. 
RIKER: Data, what are you suggesting? 
DATA: Unlikely as it may sound, I believe that the Enterprise may be
forming an intelligence.

