PICARD RIKER CRUSHER DATA

[Corridor]

DATA: Captain, you are injured. 
(Picard has a graze on his cheek) 
PICARD: Oh yes, I know. I'll get it seen to, Data. 
(Data checks the holodeck controls) 
DATA: The train we encountered was from one of Doctor Crusher's
holodeck programs. It was a re-creation of the Orient Express, a train
which travelled from Paris to Istanbul from the late nineteenth century
until. 
PICARD: Yes, yes, Data, I know about the Orient Express. But what is it
doing on Prospero's Island? 
DATA: There appears to have been a malfunction in the holodeck's
database retrieval
programme. The two programs somehow temporarily linked together. 
PICARD: Is it possible that this malfunction will affect the other
holodecks as well? 
DATA: It is a possibility. I will need to run a diagnostic to be
certain. 
PICARD: Very good, Data. But shut down the other holodecks until you're
finished, just to be on the safe side. 
DATA: Aye, sir.

[Sickbay]

PICARD: I never realised that you were interested
in trains. Are you aware that at its peak, the Orient Express carried
more than ten thousand
people a year? 
CRUSHER: It isn't really the train itself that I'm interested in. 
PICARD: What then? 
CRUSHER: It's the experience. The Orient Express is romantic,
mysterious, an elegant way to see exotic places and meet fascinating
people. Do you know that one time, on one trip, both Sigmund Freud and
Gertrude Stein just happened to be in the same car? They ended up
having dinner together every night. 
PICARD: I wonder what they talked about? 
CRUSHER: Why don't you take a trip yourself and find out? 
RIKER [OC]: Riker to Picard. 
PICARD: Picard here. 
RIKER [OC]: All sections ready to begin the survey, sir. 
PICARD: Very good. I'm on my way. Thank you. 
CRUSHER: Don't forget the trip, Jean-Luc. Think about it. You never
know who you'll meet on the Orient Express. 
Captain's log, stardate 47869.2. After weathering
an unexpected magnascopic storm in the Mekorda Sector, we are
continuing our search for new Federation colony sites.

