RIKER CONDUCTOR LAFORGE WORF RUSTIC GANGSTER CREWMAN DATA ENGINEER
use experienced people fluctuation jigsaw gangster sure navigational overloaded

[Jefferies tube]

LAFORGE: I just don't get it, Data. What would
cause the engines to suddenly jump into warp? 
DATA: Perhaps the engines were activated by a random power fluctuation.

LAFORGE: Which occurred just in time to save the ship? 
DATA: It is improbable, but it is possible. 
LAFORGE: I don't know. I don't think I'm ready to start believing in
luck. 
(they stop by an access panel) 
DATA: There is another possibility. 
LAFORGE: Yeah, what's that. 
DATA: The sensors apparently detected a dangerous anomaly that
threatened the Enterprise. It is possible that they triggered a safety
device which caused the ship to avoid destruction. 
LAFORGE: Yeah, but there's no direct link between the warp engines and
the sensors. 
(they open the panel) 
LAFORGE: Whoa. What is that? It's some kind of new circuit node and
it's connected to at least half a dozen points in the sensor array. 
DATA: It appears to be connected to several other systems as well,
including the warp control circuits. 
LAFORGE: I guess there's a connection between the warp engines and the
sensors after all. 
(a forcefield blocks access to the node) 
LAFORGE: A force field. Where did that come from? 
DATA: I am not certain. Perhaps it came from the node itself. 
LAFORGE: Well, wherever it came from, it sure doesn't want us messing
with this node. 
DATA: It appears to be protecting itself.

[Engineering]

LAFORGE: We found these nodes in several systems
around the ship. At some level or another, they're all connected. 
DATA: These nodes were linking the sensors to our warp control and
defensive systems. We believe this is why the ship jumped to warp. 
LAFORGE: When the sensors detected danger, the defensive systems
reacted to the threat and activated the warp engines to protect us. 
RIKER: Where did these nodes come from? 
DATA: It is possible that the magnascopic storm we recently experienced
had an unexpected effect on the ship's systems. 
LAFORGE: Wherever they come from, they seem to be multiplying. 
DATA: As they increase, it will become progressively more difficult to
control the ship. 
RIKER: What do you propose we do? 
LAFORGE: Well, getting rid of them isn't going to be so easy. When we
attempted to examine the circuitry of one of the nodes, it generated a
force field to keep us out. 
RIKER: Whatever's going on. our first priority is getting back control
of the ship. 
DATA: Agreed. All of the nodal connections intersect in holodeck three.
It appears to be a focal point of some kind. 
LAFORGE: We might be able to find a way to use the holodeck circuitry
to disable the nodes permanently. 
RIKER: All right. Let's do it.

[Corridor]

DATA: Commander, the holodeck appears to be in
operation. 
RIKER: I thought you shut down the entire system. 
DATA: I did, but it has reactivated itself and it will not disengage. 
WORF: Which programme is running? 
DATA: Several different programs are running simultaneously. 
RIKER: This should be interesting. 
[Holodeck- train]

(a knight in armour is cutting a newspaper, a
rustic is standing, two 1920's women and a man are working on a jigsaw,
a gunslinger takes a piece out of his pocket and adds it to the jigsaw)

RIKER: You weren't kidding, Mister Data. 
DATA: No, sir. I estimate that this scene consists of portions of seven
distinct holodeck programs. 
RIKER: See if you can access the circuits that have been affected by
the nodes. 
(an American train conductor enters) 
CONDUCTOR: Tickets! Tickets please. Please have your tickets ready.
Thank you, sir. Thank you, madam. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Tickets
please. 
RUSTIC: You know, I've never even been away from home. Now I'm going
all the way to Vertiform City! 
CONDUCTOR: Very nice, sir. Enjoy your trip. Tickets please. Tickets.
Thank you sir. 
(The conductor clips one of the knight's string of paper dolls) 
CONDUCTOR: Tickets please. Tickets please. 
DATA: Commander. I have located a large concentration of nodes behind
this wall. They appear to be connected directly to the holodeck's main
power coupling. 
RIKER: All right, go ahead and depolarise the entire power grid. 
DATA: The power grid is located beneath this deck, sir. 
CONDUCTOR: Get away from there. Would you gentlemen care to show me
your tickets? 
RIKER: I believe we left our tickets in our compartments. Mister Worf,
I told you to bring the tickets. 
WORF: I forgot. 
CONDUCTOR: I don't think you folks belong on this train. 
ENGINEER: Hold it! You leave these people alone. They're only trying to
help. 
CONDUCTOR: You go back to the engine. This doesn't concern you. 
ENGINEER: They're all trying to hijack the train. 
RUSTIC: Hey, if you're the Engineer, who's doing the drivin'? 
(a gangster shoots the Engineer in the back) 
GANGSTER: I am.

[Engineering]

(a console explodes in front of Geordi, throwing
him backwards) 
CREWMAN: Easy, sir, easy. I've got you.
LAFORGE: I'm all right, thanks. It looks like the navigational relay's
overloaded. 
