PICARD [OC] RIKER LAFORGE WORF PICARD DATA
protect intersect worf caused connection points safety threat cause

[Engineering]

LAFORGE: It wasn't me. I didn't have time to
complete the shut-down procedure. 
PICARD [OC]: Well, I want an explanation

[Bridge]

PICARD: Mister La Forge. Picard out. 
(later at the science station) 
PICARD: Have you found anything yet? 
LAFORGE: Only that we seem to have more than one mystery here. We still
don't know why the ship jumped into warp, but it looks like we're lucky
it did. There was a theta flux distortion building up around the ship. 
PICARD: Why didn't our sensors alert us? 
LAFORGE: Our sensors were never designed to detect theta flux
distortions. And yet there is a record of the distortion in the sensor
log. That's the other mystery. 
DATA: One fact is clear, however. The distortion was growing in
strength. If we had remained at our original position one point seven
seconds longer, the distortion would have ruptured our warp core. 
LAFORGE: If the Enterprise hadn't jumped into warp when it did, we
would've been blown to pieces.

[Jefferies tube]

LAFORGE: I just don't get it, Data. What would
cause the engines to suddenly jump into warp? 
DATA: Perhaps the engines were activated by a random power fluctuation.

LAFORGE: Which occurred just in time to save the ship? 
DATA: It is improbable, but it is possible. 
LAFORGE: I don't know. I don't think I'm ready to start believing in
luck. 
(they stop by an access panel) 
DATA: There is another possibility. 
LAFORGE: Yeah, what's that. 
DATA: The sensors apparently detected a dangerous anomaly that
threatened the Enterprise. It is possible that they triggered a safety
device which caused the ship to avoid destruction. 
LAFORGE: Yeah, but there's no direct link between the warp engines and
the sensors. 
(they open the panel) 
LAFORGE: Whoa. What is that? It's some kind of new circuit node and
it's connected to at least half a dozen points in the sensor array. 
DATA: It appears to be connected to several other systems as well,
including the warp control circuits. 
LAFORGE: I guess there's a connection between the warp engines and the
sensors after all. 
(a forcefield blocks access to the node) 
LAFORGE: A force field. Where did that come from? 
DATA: I am not certain. Perhaps it came from the node itself. 
LAFORGE: Well, wherever it came from, it sure doesn't want us messing
with this node. 
DATA: It appears to be protecting itself.

[Engineering]

LAFORGE: We found these nodes in several systems
around the ship. At some level or another, they're all connected. 
DATA: These nodes were linking the sensors to our warp control and
defensive systems. We believe this is why the ship jumped to warp. 
LAFORGE: When the sensors detected danger, the defensive systems
reacted to the threat and activated the warp engines to protect us. 
RIKER: Where did these nodes come from? 
DATA: It is possible that the magnascopic storm we recently experienced
had an unexpected effect on the ship's systems. 
LAFORGE: Wherever they come from, they seem to be multiplying. 
DATA: As they increase, it will become progressively more difficult to
control the ship. 
RIKER: What do you propose we do? 
LAFORGE: Well, getting rid of them isn't going to be so easy. When we
attempted to examine the circuitry of one of the nodes, it generated a
force field to keep us out. 
RIKER: Whatever's going on. our first priority is getting back control
of the ship. 
DATA: Agreed. All of the nodal connections intersect in holodeck three.
It appears to be a focal point of some kind. 
LAFORGE: We might be able to find a way to use the holodeck circuitry
to disable the nodes permanently. 
RIKER: All right. Let's do it.

[Corridor]

DATA: Commander, the holodeck appears to be in
operation. 
RIKER: I thought you shut down the entire system. 
DATA: I did, but it has reactivated itself and it will not disengage. 
WORF: Which programme is running? 
DATA: Several different programs are running simultaneously. 
RIKER: This should be interesting. 
