TROI CONDUCTOR LAFORGE WORF DATA [OC] PICARD LAFORGE [OC] RIKER RUSTIC CRUSHER
represent restaurant welcome routed excuse literal atom data duranium

[Holodeck - wall]

WORF: Are you all right? 
TROI: I'm fine. 
[Cargo bay]

LAFORGE: Data, I think we ought to get together and
compare notes. 
DATA [OC]: Agreed. 
[Sickbay]

(Troi is having her grazes healed) 
TROI: The ship was protecting itself again. Stopping us from
interfering. Whatever it's doing it intends to continue. 
LAFORGE: I'm betting it all has something to do with that object that's
forming in the cargo bay. 
TROI: I think he's right, Captain. Look at the common themes playing
out on the holodeck. A puzzle being put together, a foundation being
laid, a paper doll being fashioned. They're all images of something
being constructed. 
LAFORGE: And some kind of object in the cargo bay that's being
constructed atom by atom. 
PICARD: What is that object? 
LAFORGE: I have no idea. It's composed of silica polymers, duranium,
and a couple of other compounds we
haven't been able to identify yet.
But creating it has had quite an effect on our systems. Warp power has
dropped forty seven percent. 
PICARD: Counsellor, did you draw any other conclusions from your
experiences on the holodeck? Anything that would help us to understand
this situation? 
TROI: The holodeck was full of metaphoric imagery like it was having
some kind of daydream. It may not make literal sense, but symbolically
it probably does have some kind of logic to it. 
CRUSHER: The characters you spoke to, do they have any significance? 
TROI: I think they represent different aspects of the ship. The
Engineer, for instance, may represent the navigational system, the
gunslinger could be the weapon system. 
PICARD: Is there any way that we can persuade them to give back control
of the ship? 
TROI: I don't think it's possible to reason with them. Many of them are
genuinely unaware of what's going on. It's as though this emergent
intelligence is like an infant acting on impulse, trying to figure
itself out as it goes. The only source of experience it can draw on is
ours through our holodeck programs. 
PICARD: Is there a way that we can relate to them on their own level,
find some way to influence their behaviour? 
TROI: Maybe there is. I'd like to go back and try. 
LAFORGE: Counsellor, we haven't been able to re-establish the safeties.

CRUSHER: The injuries you suffered on the holodeck weren't severe, but
next time they might kill you. 
TROI: I'm aware of that. 
PICARD: Very well, Counsellor, go ahead. But bear in mind that whenever
we have tried to hinder their efforts, we've failed. Perhaps it's time
to cooperate with them.

[Holodeck - train]


CONDUCTOR: You don't belong on this train. 
WORF: Three tickets for Vertiform City. 
CONDUCTOR: Guess I was wrong about you folks. Welcome aboard. 
(the lights dim) 
WORF: What was that? 
CONDUCTOR: We've been having some problems. The engine is running out
of steam. I hope we make it to Vertiform City on time. 
TROI: Is there anything we can do to help? 
CONDUCTOR: Well, I could use a pair of strong arms in the engine room.
Might help us get back on schedule. 
TROI: Why don't you go with him, Worf? We'll see what we can do here. 
(Worf and the conductor leave) 
RUSTIC: Excuse me. Are we going to get there okay? 
TROI: Of course. You needn't worry about a thing. So, tell me
everything you know about Vertiform City. 
RUSTIC: Well, they got this restaurant there where you can eat all you
want, any time. It's the best food around. 
[Holodeck - Engine room]

(coal fired of course, like the TOS blooper) 
CONDUCTOR: There's the coal and there's the boiler. I'm much obliged
for your help. 
(Worf starts stoking) 
CONDUCTOR: Well done, sir. I think this'll make a difference, all
right.

[Bridge]

RIKER: I don't know how or why, sir, but warp power
appears to be back to normal levels. 
PICARD: What's our heading? 
RIKER: We appear to be on a course for Tambor Beta six. It's a white
dwarf star. 
[Holodeck - Engine room]

CONDUCTOR: Keep it steady. Put your back into it.
That's the ticket. 
[Bridge]

RIKER: The ship is using a modified tractor beam to
collect vertion particles from the star. 
PICARD: Vertion particles. Vertiform City. That's what the ship was
looking for. 
(shudder) 
RIKER: The particles are being routed through the transporter system
into cargo bay five. 
PICARD: Geordi, what's going on? 
LAFORGE [OC]: The object is absorbing

