PICARD [OC] RIKER LAFORGE CONDUCTOR PICARD TROI RUSTIC GANGSTER WORF CRUSHER DATA
passengers observation consciousness yeah depolarise behave intersect talks mister

[Engineering]

PICARD [OC]: Geordi, what's going on? We just went
into warp. 
LAFORGE: We've lost engine and helm control again, Captain, but this
time, they're completely burned out. I don't know if we can stop the
ship.

[Holodeck- train]

DATA: I believe we have changed direction. 
CONDUCTOR: Now we're on the right track. Ladies and gentlemen, we are
on our way! 
(cheers all round and the gangster takes a house brick from the
engineer's overalls) 
GANGSTER: I was right. He was trying to make off with my brick. 
CONDUCTOR: You take good care of that. We can't afford to lose it. Now,
are you people going to leave or are we going to have to throw you off
the train? 
DATA: Commander. According to my tricorder, the holodeck safeties have
been disengaged. His weapon could be lethal. 
RIKER: All right, let's get out of here.

[Engineering]

DATA: The number of systems now being affected by
the nodes has increased considerably. Sensors, engines, replicators,
propulsion, they are all working together now, almost independently of
the main computer. And the nodes link them all through the holodeck. 
RIKER: But why the holodeck? It doesn't make any sense. 
DATA: Commander, I believe what happens on the holodeck has a direct
effect on the ship. When we attempted to destroy the nodes, the
characters on the train responded almost immediately to stop us. 
RIKER: And when the engineer tried to protect us, one of the characters
shot him. 
DATA: Then the conductor then signalled for the train to change
directions, and at approximately the same time 
LAFORGE: The Enterprise also took off in a new direction. 
RIKER: Are you saying the ship is under the control of the holodeck? 
DATA: Not precisely. Geordi, does the configuration of connection nodes
look familiar to you? 
LAFORGE: Yeah. Yeah, it looks a little like the structure of your
positronic brain. 
DATA: That is correct. It would appear that the nodes are in the
process of creating a rudimentary neural net. 
RIKER: Data, what are you suggesting? 
DATA: Unlikely as it may sound, I believe that the Enterprise may be
forming an intelligence.

[Observation lounge]

DATA: This is a synaptic map of the human
neo-cortex. This is a cross section of my positronic net. And this is a
schematic of the connection nodes linking the ship's systems. I believe
some sort of neural matrix is forming on the ship. It is still
relatively primitive, but it is an intelligence nonetheless. 
TROI: How could that happen? 
DATA: I believe it is an emergent property. 
PICARD: Explain. 
DATA: Complex systems can sometimes behave in ways that are entirely
unpredictable. The human brain, for example, might be described in
terms of cellular functions and neurochemical interactions. But that
description does not explain human consciousness, a capacity that far
exceeds simple neural functions. Consciousness is an emergent property.

LAFORGE: In other words, something that's more than just the sum of its
parts. 
DATA: Exactly. 
CRUSHER: How does that explain what's happening to the Enterprise? 
DATA: The Enterprise contains a vast database of information which is
managed by a sophisticated computer. This complex system gives the ship
many of the characteristics of a biological organism. 
RIKER: That's true. It sees with its sensors, it talks with its
communications systems. 
CRUSHER: In a sense, it almost reproduces with the replicators. 
PICARD: And you think that the ship has somehow gone beyond those
functions and is developing a new capacity? 
DATA: Yes, sir. I believe a self-determining intelligence is emerging. 
WORF: If that is so, what does the ship want? Where is it taking us? 
DATA: I believe the key to understanding the ship's behaviour lies in
the holodeck. All of the connection nodes intersect at that location.
It is clearly some kind of processing centre. 
PICARD: Processing centre? 
DATA: Yes, sir. A focal point where all the ideas and instincts of this
emerging intelligence are first expressed in some form. 
TROI: Almost like an imagination. Captain, I'd like to go to the
holodeck. I could interact with the characters and maybe find some
clues to help us understand what's happening. 
PICARD: Very well. Mister Data, Mister Worf, I want you to go along.
See if you can to re-establish control of the ship without damaging the
nodes. If the ship is truly an emerging intelligence, then we have a
responsibility to treat it with the same respect as any other being.

[Holodeck - train]

(things have changed. A flapper is repeatedly
tapping a goblet against the knight's helm. The gunslinger is tied up
while the gangster plays cards with him.)
WORF: Welcome aboard, Counsellor. 
DATA: If you will distract these people, I will attempt to depolarise
the power grid. 
(Troi and Worf go over the rustic and the other flapper who are working
on the jigsaw) 
WORF: Excuse me. Have you finished the puzzle yet? 
RUSTIC: Not yet, but we're gettin' close. 
WORF: Do you recognise it? 
TROI: No. 
WORF: I would like to help. Tell me. What exactly are you making? 
RUSTIC: What do you think we're making? A puzzle! 
WORF: No, I meant the picture. What is it? 
RUSTIC: Well, I don't know. 
(Troi goes to the card game) 
TROI: Can you deal me in? 
GANGSTER: Sorry. It's a two man game. 
(Troi reaches for the brick)
GANGSTER: Hey! Get your hand off of that. 
TROI: Is that why you killed the Engineer? To get this brick? 
GANGSTER: I had to get it back. You know how much it's worth, lady?
Plenty. And I
got to get it to Keystone City. 
TROI: Why? What's at Keystone City? 
GANGSTER: That's where everything begins. Gin. 
(his five cards all show the jigsaw) 
WORF: Are you succeeding, Commander? 
DATA: I am ready to access the main power grid. 
CONDUCTOR: Keystone City, next stop. Keystone City. Well, look who's
back. 
WORF: We do not want any trouble. We are simply passengers. 
CONDUCTOR: Well then I'm sure you wouldn't mind showing me your
tickets? Right. Sorry, boys. You're getting off right here. 
GANGSTER: This is my stop. 
TROI: Wait. What happens at Keystone City? Why are you taking the brick
there? 
GANGSTER: Excuse me. 
TROI: I think we should follow that man. That brick may be an important
clue. 
