PICARD SANTOS RO DATA WORF

[Alien bar]

(Picard is in civilian clothes and Ro enters. The
male she kissed approaches her.) 
RO: Not tonight. (to Picard) Hello. Are you alone? 
PICARD: I hope not. 
RO: Why don't we get acquainted? There's a table in the back that's
more private. 
PICARD: I'd like that. 
(they sit and pretend to be getting close) 
RO: We have to cancel the mission. 
PICARD: Why? 
RO: The Maquis didn't go for the bait. They think the convoy is too big
a target. 
PICARD: But there are only six ships. We could even cut back that
number. 
RO: It's the commitment of resources, of grouping so many of the Maquis
together at once. They feel that it makes them too vulnerable. 
PICARD: Every intelligence report that I get from Starfleet suggests
that the Maquis are eager to expand their strikes, they want to
escalate their activities. Now you're telling me this isn't true? 
RO: It's probably different in every cell. The people I've met tend to
be more conservative. I'm sure others have a more militant attitude. 
PICARD: Laren, what's going on? 
RO: Do you have the money I asked you to bring? 
PICARD: Yes. 
RO: Put some on the table. 
PICARD: What? 
RO: By this time, you should be negotiating my price. When you sent me
on this mission, I thought that I could do it. Even
though it meant helping Cardassians, even though it meant betraying
people who are fighting against them. Now I'm not sure where I stand. 
PICARD: Are you saying you want to back out of this mission? 
RO: Sir, I don't want to let you down, I swear that I don't. 
PICARD: This has nothing to do with me. This is about you. If you back
out now, you'll throw away everything you've worked for. We're
committed to this mission. My only question for you is, can you carry
out your orders? I could put you before a board of inquiry for having
lied to me about this operation. I would certainly have you
court-martialled if you sabotage it. Now, it's your decision. 
RO: I'll carry out my orders, sir. 
PICARD: I feel it necessary to have Commander Riker go back with you.
He can pose as a relative. I just want to make sure that nothing
happens to obstruct this mission. 
(Picard stands to leave) 
PICARD: I'm sorry. I don't have that kind of money.

Captain's log, supplemental. We have received word
from Commander Riker and Lieutenant Ro that the Maquis will be
attacking the convoy as planned. Our ships have taken up position in
the Hugora Nebula to wait for them.

[Bridge]

(at the science station) 
DATA: I have established a relay link with the sensor probe we left on
the perimeter of the Nebula. This is the convoy. We are expecting the
Maquis attack force to cross the border from the Demilitarised Zone. 
PICARD: As soon as they cross the border, we'll intercept them. 
WORF: Captain, in order to ensure that the ship Commander Riker and
Lieutenant Ro are piloting does not come under fire, I have relayed
their warp signature to the rest of the attack force. 
DATA: Sir, the Maquis squadron is coming into sensor range. 
PICARD: Go to Red alert. 
WORF: Aye, sir. 
[Ro's ship]

 SANTOS [OC]: Squad leader to all ships. 
RO: Go ahead, squad leader.

[Santos' ship]

SANTOS: We'll be crossing the border in less than
one minute. Arm your weapons. 
RO [OC]: Acknowledged.

