RIKER CRUSHER GUL EVEK WORF PICARD RO DATA NECHAYEV
week gates ve forced aye practice stop identification condone

[Corridor]

PICARD: Change course to intercept. I'm on my way.
I'd like you at the conn, Lieutenant.

[Bridge]

PICARD: Ensign Gates. 
(Gates gives up her seat for Ro) 
PICARD: Report. 
RIKER: The Cardassian ship relayed a distress signal but it was cut off
before we could find out what was wrong. 
RO: I have the ship on long range sensors. It appears to be under
attack by several small ships. 
PICARD: Can you identify them? 
RO: No, sir. They're not transmitting identification codes. 
DATA: I will scan their warp signatures. Sir, sensors indicate the
attacking vessels are Federation ships. 
(after the opening credits) 
RO: We're coming into visual range. 
PICARD: On screen. 
RIKER: Those are Federation ships. 
PICARD: Isolate one and magnify. The Maquis. Open a channel. 
WORF: Open. 
PICARD: To all Maquis ships. Call off your attack or we will be forced
to engage you. 
WORF: No response. 
PICARD: You are Federation citizens. Your actions are in violation of
our treaty with the Cardassians. Call off your attack. 
DATA: They are not responding, sir. 
PICARD: Mister Worf, are we in firing range? 
WORF: Not yet, sir. 
PICARD: Arm phasers and photon torpedoes and stand by. 
RIKER: I never thought we'd be firing on our own people to protect a
Cardassian ship. 
DATA: The Maquis ships are regrouping, sir. They are closing in on the
Cardassian vessel. 
WORF: The Cardassian's shields are down to thirty percent. 
RIKER: They may not be able to withstand another hit. 
WORF: Sir, we are within weapons range. 
PICARD: Mister Worf, can you detonate a torpedo spread between the
Maquis ships and the Cardassians? 
WORF: Yes, sir. 
PICARD: Do it. 
(four bolts of light whoosh off) 
WORF: The Maquis are breaking formation. They are withdrawing. 
PICARD: Signal the Cardassians that we're standing by to assist them if
they have any wounded. 
WORF: Aye, sir. 
[Sickbay]

GUL EVEK: Do you people have experience treating
Cardassians? 
CRUSHER: Yes. Do you mind? 
PICARD: Gul Evek. I'm sorry that we could not come to your aid sooner. 
GUL EVEK: I suppose we're lucky you came at all. Lately Starfleet seems
to look the other way when the Maquis attack. 
PICARD: I can assure you that is not the case. We're doing everything
in our power to control them. 
GUL EVEK: The fact that my ship was attacked suggests that your efforts
have met with limited success. They came at us with photon torpedoes
and type eight phasers. Tell me, Captain, how do you suppose that a
group of civilians acquired such weaponry? 
PICARD: I can assure you it was not through official channels. 
GUL EVEK: So you don't think the fact that some of the Maquis are
former Starfleet officers has anything to do with it? 
PICARD: Starfleet does not condone the Maquis' actions in the
Demilitarised Zone any more than your government would condone the
paramilitary actions of Cardassian civilians. 
GUL EVEK: We have taken measures to deal with our colonists who have
armed themselves. 
PICARD: Considering that they destroyed a Juhryan freighter less than a
week ago, I would say that your efforts are meeting with limited
success. 
GUL EVEK: Captain, if the Maquis are not stopped, this situation will
continue to escalate to the point where the Cardassian military will
have no choice but to take matters into their own hands.

Captain's log, supplemental. Gul Evek and his crew
have left the Enterprise, and we have proceeded to our rendezvous with
Admiral Nechayev.

[Ready room]

NECHAYEV: No Bularian canaps this time, Captain? 
PICARD: I thought twice was pushing it a little. 
NECHAYEV: It's just as well. They're extremely fattening. 
PICARD: You missed Gul Evek by a matter of hours. I asked him to stay.
I thought that an Admiral's assurances might convince him that we are
trying to deal with this Maquis situation. 
NECHAYEV: Evek manages to make the Cardassians sound like helpless
sheep being preyed on by Federation wolves. The truth is, we caught the
Cardassian government supplying its colonies in the Demilitarised Zone
with weapons. 
PICARD: Gul Evek assured me that they had stopped that practice. 
NECHAYEV: Ha. How comforting. 
PICARD: Admiral, this Maquis situation has you worried. 
NECHAYEV: Believe me, Captain, if I were living that close to the
Cardassians, I'd keep a phaser under my pillow too. But in the last
weeks we've seen signs that the Maquis are moving beyond self-defence.
Their ranks are growing.
They're acquiring ships, weapons. They seem to be preparing for a more
aggressive military posture. We've got to put a stop to them before the
entire Demilitarised Zone ignites. But before we stop them, we have to
find them. They seem to be scattered in small cells around the Zone.
And we don't have reliable intelligence about any of them. 
PICARD: Perhaps you need an undercover operative. 
NECHAYEV: Our thinking exactly. We intend to infiltrate their
organisation, and the person we want to do it is aboard your ship right
now.

