RIKER WORF PICARD RO DATA KALITA
distress attempting looking outside trigger comm searched algorithms narrow

[Ro's ship]

RO: I set the transporter confinement parameters to
maximum. We should be able to fill our hold with medical supplies with
just one single beam out. 
KALITA: I had no idea it was going to be so easy. 
RO: We're approaching the Federation border. 
KALITA: How do you plan to get out of the Demilitarised Zone without
being searched at one of the checkpoints? 
RO: We're going to cross the border here. 
KALITA: There are sensor buoys all along the border. If we cross
anywhere other than a checkpoint, Starfleet will send a ship to
investigate. 
RO: With the right security codes, we can disable the proximity
detectors on the buoys. 
KALITA: Starfleet changes those codes all the time. 
RO: I know the encryption algorithms. If I can access the buoy's
protocol subsystem I should be able to figure out the codes. 
KALITA: Should be able to? 
RO: Do you want this mission to succeed? 
KALITA: Of course I do. We need those medical supplies. 
RO: In that case, let me do my job. I'm in. 
KALITA: What's wrong? 
RO: If I don't input the right code in the next twenty seconds, we'll
trigger the proximity alarm. 
KALITA: I'm getting us out of sensor range. 
RO: Don't. If we break the comm. link, we won't be able to try again. 
RO: It worked. Until they change the access codes again, we can cross
the border here.

Captain's log, stardate 47943.2. It has been over a
week since Lieutenant Ro left the Enterprise. We have yet to receive
any communication from her.

[Bridge]

RIKER: We picked up a request for emergency
assistance from a Federation science ship in the Topin system. 
PICARD: Are there any other ships in the vicinity? 
RIKER: We're the closest. 
PICARD: Helm, set course for the Topin system. Mister Data, will you
signal the science ship that we're on our way. 
DATA: It is unlikely that they would receive our communication, sir.
The Topin system contains an unstable protostar. It generates
significant magnetoscopic interference. 
PICARD: Can we use our sensors to find them? 
DATA: Most of our sensors would be ineffective, although our
directional array should cut through the interference. 
RIKER: That array has such a narrow scan field. We might as well break
out the palm beacons and try to find them that way.

[Ro's ship]

KALITA: This is insane. We're sitting here, no
sensors, blind to the outside, waiting for a galaxy class Starship to
come swooping down on us. 
RO: Don't worry. It'll be hard for them to locate us with just the
directional sensors. Besides, they're looking for a damaged science
ship that wants to be found. They're here. Standby to engage thrusters.

[Bridge]

RIKER: Anything? 
DATA: No, sir. It will take approximately six hours to scan this
system. 
WORF: Captain, the distress call is being repeated. 
PICARD: Data, can you locate the signal? 
DATA: I am attempting to do so.

