MACIAS PICARD SANTOS RO KALITA
considering cardassian dialogue afraid kills dies dangerous monsters wait

[Settlement]

SANTOS: You took your ship through their shields? 
KALITA: Ro parked us between their warp nacelles. I thought she was
crazy, but it worked. She knew exactly what she was doing. 
MACIAS: Well done. 
SANTOS: I have to inventory supplies and find out what we have. 
KALITA: See you later. 
(Santos and Kalita leave) 
MACIAS: Well, it seems that Kalita has decided you're not a Federation
spy after all. She's suspicious of everyone at first. And rightly so.
We've learned to be cautious with strangers. 
RO: I understand. 
MACIAS: But I've known since I first met you that in your heart, you're
one of us. 
Captain's log, supplemental. Having earned the
Maquis' trust with her raid on the Enterprise, Lieutenant Ro has been
given access to a ship and allowed to leave the settlement by herself.

[Observation lounge]

RO: There are rumours that the Cardassians are
supplying their colonists with biogenic weapons. 
PICARD: Frankly, I find it hard to believe. Every ship that enters the
Demilitarised Zone is being searched. 
RO: The Maquis are convinced that the Cardassians are finding a way
around these searches. 
PICARD: You know, we could make use of that. 
RO: Sir? 
PICARD: We have come up with a plan that has the potential to seriously
curtail the Maquis. We want to give them a target so threatening to
them that they'll be willing to commit as many ships and people as
possible in order to destroy it. 
RO: What do you mean, give them a target? 
PICARD: Biogenic weapons, for example. You could provide them with
intelligence that would show that the Cardassians are, in fact,
supplying their colonists with them. 
RO: That would get their attention, all right. 
PICARD: You could tell them that in order to get past the check points,
they're shipping the components for these weapons through third
parties, and then we could put together a convoy and send it toward the
Demilitarised Zone. 
RO: And when the Maquis attack it, Starfleet will be waiting for them. 
PICARD: We could station our ships in the Hugora Nebula to avoid
detection. 
RO: Basically, I would be leading them into a trap. 
PICARD: That's right. If you have a problem with any of this, I need to
know it now. 
RO: Well, if I do, sir, it will not stop me from carrying out my duty. 
PICARD: I knew that I could count on you. 
[Meeting Room]

RO: It took me a while, but I managed to patch
through into Starfleet's comm. system. I intercepted a communication
from one of the
checkpoints on the border. They're concerned because a Pakled transport
came through carrying retro-viral vaccines. 
SANTOS: Why is that a concern? 
RO: Well, last week a Ferengi transport came through carrying
biomimetic gels. By themselves, neither of these is dangerous, but
Starfleet is concerned because with along with other components the
Cardassians could put together a biogenic device. 
KALITA: What is Starfleet going to do about it? 
RO: They can't do anything about it. These items are all perfectly
legal. 
MACIAS: How close are the Cardassians to having the components they
need? 
RO: Very close. Two days ago, a Yridian convoy left Deep Space Nine for
the Demilitarised Zone. It's carrying isomiotic hypos, plasma flares
and quarantine pods. 
KALITA: We can't let that convoy reach its destination. 
SANTOS: But it's too big for us to go after alone. 
MACIAS: I'll discuss the situation with the other cell leaders.
Considering what's at stake, they'll want to help.

[Settlement]

MACIAS: I've sent a communication to the others.
When this is over, we'll celebrate. 
RO: When it's over? 
MACIAS: When Cardassia realises they can't intimidate us into leaving
our colonies. 
RO: Something tells me it'll be a long time before we'll be
celebrating. 
MACIAS: Don't be discouraged, Ro. It'll take time, but the important
thing is that we not give up. 
RO: I spent ten years in the camps. I don't give up. 
MACIAS: I've been thinking a long time about what our celebration will
be like. We'll have a huge dinner. You'll make hasperat and I'll make
blueberry pie. We'll drink wine and we'll dance. I'll even play the
belaklavion. That'll give everyone a laugh. 
RO: You play the klavion? 
MACIAS: Yes, badly. It's a difficult instrument, but I enjoy the
challenge. 
RO: My father played the klavion. When I was very young and afraid of
monsters under my bed, he'd play for me. He said that the klavion had
special powers. Monsters were afraid of it and when they heard it they
would disappear. When I listened to that music he played for me I was
never afraid to go to sleep. When he died I realised even he couldn't
make all the monsters go away. 
MACIAS: Why wait? Let's go to the market. Let's get food for a feast,
for a celebration. 
RO: A celebration of what? 
MACIAS: Of absolutely nothing. Just to celebrate. 
RO: I'd like that. 
(they go walking off across the square and their dialogue is under the
music) 
MACIAS: Come, let's go to the market. If I'm going to make a pie, we'll
have to find a substitute for blueberries. Haven't seen real ones in
years. 
RO: On Bajor, there's a berry 
MACIAS: Yes, I know it, very sweet. 
(three cowled figures go up some steps then reveal themselves to be
Cardassians. They start shooting the people. Santos comes with weapons)

SANTOS: Ro! 
(she takes one, and others get handed out. Santos kills one Cardassian,
Kalita another, then Macias goes to help a wounded man and gets shot
himself. Ro kills the last Cardassian) 
RO: Macias? 
MACIAS: They must have found out that there was a Maquis cell here. 
RO: Kalita, get one of the medkits. Hurry. You have to hang on. 
MACIAS: When an old fighter like me dies someone always steps forward
to take his place. 
(and he dies)

