RIKER WORF PICARD SANTOS MACIAS RO DATA KALITA

[Bridge]

WORF: Captain, a quantity of medical supplies was
beamed from cargo bay seven. 
DATA: The vessel that penetrated our shields is of the same design as
the ships used by the Maquis. It is moving off. 
PICARD: Let it go. There must be someone with her. We should make it
look as though we're trying to stop them. Mister Worf, lock phasers on
their previous position and fire. 
WORF: Aye, sir. 
RIKER: Now we know what they mean by Advanced Tactical Training. 
[Settlement]

SANTOS: You took your ship through their shields? 
KALITA: Ro parked us between their warp nacelles. I thought she was
crazy, but it worked. She knew exactly what she was doing. 
MACIAS: Well done. 
SANTOS: I have to inventory supplies and find out what we have. 
KALITA: See you later. 
(Santos and Kalita leave) 
MACIAS: Well, it seems that Kalita has decided you're not a Federation
spy after all. She's suspicious of everyone at first. And rightly so.
We've learned to be cautious with strangers. 
RO: I understand. 
MACIAS: But I've known since I first met you that in your heart, you're
one of us. 
Captain's log, supplemental. Having earned the
Maquis' trust with her raid on the Enterprise, Lieutenant Ro has been
given access to a ship and allowed to leave the settlement by herself.

[Observation lounge]

RO: There are rumours that the Cardassians are
supplying their colonists with biogenic weapons. 
PICARD: Frankly, I find it hard to believe. Every ship that enters the
Demilitarised Zone is being searched. 
RO: The Maquis are convinced that the Cardassians are finding a way
around these searches. 
PICARD: You know, we could make use of that. 
RO: Sir? 
PICARD: We have come up with a plan that has the potential to seriously
curtail the Maquis. We want to give them a target so threatening to
them that they'll be willing to commit as many ships and people as
possible in order to destroy it. 
RO: What do you mean, give them a target? 
PICARD: Biogenic weapons, for example. You could provide them with
intelligence that would show that the Cardassians are, in fact,
supplying their colonists with them. 
RO: That would get their attention, all right. 
PICARD: You could tell them that in order to get past the check points,
they're shipping the components for these weapons through third
parties, and then we could put together a convoy and send it toward the
Demilitarised Zone. 
RO: And when the Maquis attack it, Starfleet will be waiting for them. 
PICARD: We could station our ships in the Hugora Nebula to avoid
detection. 
RO: Basically, I would be leading them into a trap. 
PICARD: That's right. If you have a problem with any of this, I need to
know it now. 
RO: Well, if I do, sir, it will not stop me from carrying out my duty. 
PICARD: I knew that I could count on you. 
[Meeting Room]

RO: It took me a while, but I managed to patch
through into Starfleet's comm. system. I intercepted a communication
from one of the
checkpoints on the border. They're concerned because a Pakled transport
came through carrying retro-viral vaccines. 
SANTOS: Why is that a concern? 
RO: Well, last week a Ferengi transport came through carrying
biomimetic gels. By themselves, neither of these is dangerous, but
Starfleet is concerned because with along with other components the
Cardassians could put together a biogenic device. 
KALITA: What is Starfleet going to do about it? 
RO: They can't do anything about it. These items are all perfectly
legal. 
MACIAS: How close are the Cardassians to having the components they
need? 
RO: Very close. Two days ago, a Yridian convoy left Deep Space Nine for
the Demilitarised Zone. It's carrying isomiotic hypos, plasma flares
and quarantine pods. 
KALITA: We can't let that convoy reach its destination. 
SANTOS: But it's too big for us to go after alone. 
MACIAS: I'll discuss the situation with the other cell leaders.
Considering what's at stake, they'll want to help.

