SANTOS WORF PICARD MACIAS RO DATA KALITA
meant cardassian afraid kills played range obstruct monsters vulnerable

[Meeting Room]

RO: It took me a while, but I managed to patch
through into Starfleet's comm. system. I intercepted a communication
from one of the
checkpoints on the border. They're concerned because a Pakled transport
came through carrying retro-viral vaccines. 
SANTOS: Why is that a concern? 
RO: Well, last week a Ferengi transport came through carrying
biomimetic gels. By themselves, neither of these is dangerous, but
Starfleet is concerned because with along with other components the
Cardassians could put together a biogenic device. 
KALITA: What is Starfleet going to do about it? 
RO: They can't do anything about it. These items are all perfectly
legal. 
MACIAS: How close are the Cardassians to having the components they
need? 
RO: Very close. Two days ago, a Yridian convoy left Deep Space Nine for
the Demilitarised Zone. It's carrying isomiotic hypos, plasma flares
and quarantine pods. 
KALITA: We can't let that convoy reach its destination. 
SANTOS: But it's too big for us to go after alone. 
MACIAS: I'll discuss the situation with the other cell leaders.
Considering what's at stake, they'll want to help.

[Settlement]

MACIAS: I've sent a communication to the others.
When this is over, we'll celebrate. 
RO: When it's over? 
MACIAS: When Cardassia realises they can't intimidate us into leaving
our colonies. 
RO: Something tells me it'll be a long time before we'll be
celebrating. 
MACIAS: Don't be discouraged, Ro. It'll take time, but the important
thing is that we not give up. 
RO: I spent ten years in the camps. I don't give up. 
MACIAS: I've been thinking a long time about what our celebration will
be like. We'll have a huge dinner. You'll make hasperat and I'll make
blueberry pie. We'll drink wine and we'll dance. I'll even play the
belaklavion. That'll give everyone a laugh. 
RO: You play the klavion? 
MACIAS: Yes, badly. It's a difficult instrument, but I enjoy the
challenge. 
RO: My father played the klavion. When I was very young and afraid of
monsters under my bed, he'd play for me. He said that the klavion had
special powers. Monsters were afraid of it and when they heard it they
would disappear. When I listened to that music he played for me I was
never afraid to go to sleep. When he died I realised even he couldn't
make all the monsters go away. 
MACIAS: Why wait? Let's go to the market. Let's get food for a feast,
for a celebration. 
RO: A celebration of what? 
MACIAS: Of absolutely nothing. Just to celebrate. 
RO: I'd like that. 
(they go walking off across the square and their dialogue is under the
music) 
MACIAS: Come, let's go to the market. If I'm going to make a pie, we'll
have to find a substitute for blueberries. Haven't seen real ones in
years. 
RO: On Bajor, there's a berry 
MACIAS: Yes, I know it, very sweet. 
(three cowled figures go up some steps then reveal themselves to be
Cardassians. They start shooting the people. Santos comes with weapons)

SANTOS: Ro! 
(she takes one, and others get handed out. Santos kills one Cardassian,
Kalita another, then Macias goes to help a wounded man and gets shot
himself. Ro kills the last Cardassian) 
RO: Macias? 
MACIAS: They must have found out that there was a Maquis cell here. 
RO: Kalita, get one of the medkits. Hurry. You have to hang on. 
MACIAS: When an old fighter like me dies someone always steps forward
to take his place. 
(and he dies)

[Alien bar]

(Picard is in civilian clothes and Ro enters. The
male she kissed approaches her.) 
RO: Not tonight. (to Picard) Hello. Are you alone? 
PICARD: I hope not. 
RO: Why don't we get acquainted? There's a table in the back that's
more private. 
PICARD: I'd like that. 
(they sit and pretend to be getting close) 
RO: We have to cancel the mission. 
PICARD: Why? 
RO: The Maquis didn't go for the bait. They think the convoy is too big
a target. 
PICARD: But there are only six ships. We could even cut back that
number. 
RO: It's the commitment of resources, of grouping so many of the Maquis
together at once. They feel that it makes them too vulnerable. 
PICARD: Every intelligence report that I get from Starfleet suggests
that the Maquis are eager to expand their strikes, they want to
escalate their activities. Now you're telling me this isn't true? 
RO: It's probably different in every cell. The people I've met tend to
be more conservative. I'm sure others have a more militant attitude. 
PICARD: Laren, what's going on? 
RO: Do you have the money I asked you to bring? 
PICARD: Yes. 
RO: Put some on the table. 
PICARD: What? 
RO: By this time, you should be negotiating my price. When you sent me
on this mission, I thought that I could do it. Even
though it meant helping Cardassians, even though it meant betraying
people who are fighting against them. Now I'm not sure where I stand. 
PICARD: Are you saying you want to back out of this mission? 
RO: Sir, I don't want to let you down, I swear that I don't. 
PICARD: This has nothing to do with me. This is about you. If you back
out now, you'll throw away everything you've worked for. We're
committed to this mission. My only question for you is, can you carry
out your orders? I could put you before a board of inquiry for having
lied to me about this operation. I would certainly have you
court-martialled if you sabotage it. Now, it's your decision. 
RO: I'll carry out my orders, sir. 
PICARD: I feel it necessary to have Commander Riker go back with you.
He can pose as a relative. I just want to make sure that nothing
happens to obstruct this mission. 
(Picard stands to leave) 
PICARD: I'm sorry. I don't have that kind of money.

Captain's log, supplemental. We have received word
from Commander Riker and Lieutenant Ro that the Maquis will be
attacking the convoy as planned. Our ships have taken up position in
the Hugora Nebula to wait for them.

[Bridge]

(at the science station) 
DATA: I have established a relay link with the sensor probe we left on
the perimeter of the Nebula. This is the convoy. We are expecting the
Maquis attack force to cross the border from the Demilitarised Zone. 
PICARD: As soon as they cross the border, we'll intercept them. 
WORF: Captain, in order to ensure that the ship Commander Riker and
Lieutenant Ro are piloting does not come under fire, I have relayed
their warp signature to the rest of the attack force. 
DATA: Sir, the Maquis squadron is coming into sensor range. 
PICARD: Go to Red alert. 
WORF: Aye, sir. 
