MACIAS SANTOS RO KALITA
forced evening input danger stretch maximum code omara served

[Room]

MACIAS: (middle aged man) Don't be afraid. You're
not in danger here. 
SANTOS: What is your name? 
KALITA: Did you kill that Cardassian soldier? 
RO: Who are you? 
SANTOS: We're the people who saved you from Starfleet. 
RO: Thanks, but I'll be going now. 
(Kalita points a weapon at Ro) 
SANTOS: Did you kill that Cardassian? 
RO: Yes. 
KALITA: That's a risky thing to do in the Demilitarised Zone. You can
end up being hunted by Starfleet and the Cardassians. 
RO: Then why did he risk bringing me here? 
KALITA: We're asking the questions. Who are you? 
RO: My name is Ro Laren. I grew up in the Bajoran camps. 
MACIAS: That would explain why you have no love for Cardassians. 
RO: I know what they're capable of. They tortured my father to death
and I was forced to watch. 
SANTOS: Where are you living now? 
RO: Nowhere. I was a Starfleet officer, but I was court-martialled and
sent to the stockade on Jaros Two. I'm not exactly what you'd call
Starfleet material. 
SANTOS: When were you on Jaros? 
RO: What difference does it make? 
KALITA: We want to check your story. When were you there? 
RO: Starfleet let me out about three years ago because I agreed to do
some work for them, mostly having to do with Bajor. But I got tired of
watching them placate the Cardassians, and so I left. 
KALITA: You resigned? 
RO: Not officially. That's part of the reason why they're looking for
me. 
SANTOS: What were you doing on Omara? 
RO: Look, I think I've answered enough of your questions. I would like
to know who you people are. 
MACIAS: Let's say that we sympathise with those who oppose Cardassia. 
RO: Are you Maquis? 
MACIAS: What if we were? 
RO: If you were, I would ask if I could join you and help you fight. 
MACIAS: We'll check your story. Go ahead, I'll keep an eye on her. 
(Kalita hands over the weapon then she and Santos leave. Macias puts
the gun on his chair) 
MACIAS: Come, let's stretch our legs.

[Settlement]

(it's evening and the crickets are singing) 
RO: Aren't you taking a chance by letting me see all of this? What if
my story doesn't check out? What if I'm not who I say I am? 
MACIAS: Well, then we'll have a problem, won't we? 
RO: You are Maquis, aren't you? 
MACIAS: Many of the people here are. 
RO: Starfleet considers you outlaws. They're afraid you'll destroy the
peace treaty. 
MACIAS: They don't understand the situation here in the Zone. I lived
on Juhraya. When the treaty was signed the colony suddenly found itself
in Cardassian territory. Some of us chose to stay, take our chances.
Then one night I was dragged from my bed and beaten. The authorities
clucked their tongues and agreed it was an unfortunate incident, and
did nothing. 
RO: I'm not surprised. The Cardassians intend to make life so
unpleasant for Federation citizens that they'll leave. 
MACIAS: Exactly. And no one seems to see that, except the Maquis. How
old were you when your father was killed? 
RO: I'd rather not talk about it. 
MACIAS: Hungry? Would you like something? 
RO: No, thank you. 
MACIAS: (to replicator) Hasperat. 
RO: You like hasperat? 
MACIAS: An old Bajoran friend of mine used to make it. His was
stronger. He was killed many years ago fighting the Cardassian
occupation of Bajor. I miss his company, and his hasperat. 
RO: My father used to make the strongest hasperat you've ever tasted.
Everything else seems mild by comparison. 
MACIAS: Did he teach you how to make it? 
RO: Yes. But I haven't tried it in years. 
MACIAS: If you would make the brine for a really strong hasperat. I
mean eye watering, tongue searing strong, you'd make an old man very
happy. 
RO: I would enjoy making it again. 
SANTOS: Macias. I've checked with my sources at Starfleet. Her story's
true. 
MACIAS: I was sure it was. Kalita, she'll stay with you until we can
find her a room.

[Meeting room]

MACIAS: Ah there you are. 
KALITA: We've just heard a disturbing rumour. 
RO: Another rumour? 
KALITA: One that I think we should take seriously. A trader coming from
Pendi Two said he could verify that the Cardassians are going to start
supplying their colonists with biogenic weapons. 
RO: I thought every shipment coming into the Zone was searched. 
KALITA: The Cardassians always seem to find a way around problems like
that. 
SANTOS: Then we have to make a preemptive strike. Send a message to the
Cardassians that we won't sit still while they kill us with toxins. 
MACIAS: Agreed. But we can't mount a strike without medical supplies
and our stockpile is dangerously low. 
KALITA: If we put in a request for more, it'll draw suspicion. 
RO: I can get medical supplies. I served on the Enterprise. They always
have extra medkits on hand for relief missions. 
SANTOS: You're wanted by Starfleet. They're not going to give you
medkits just because you ask for them. 
RO: I have no intention of asking for them. I intend to take them. 
KALITA: How? The Enterprise is a fortress. 
RO: I know its security systems work. Give me a ship. I can do it. 
SANTOS: It's madness. 
KALITA: We can't let her do something like this. We don't know anything
about her. 
MACIAS: I know that she can make very strong hasperat. 
KALITA: What? 
MACIAS: We need medical supplies. I think we should let her try. 
KALITA: All right. But I'm going with her. 
RO: I could use an extra hand at the controls. And a witness.

[Ro's ship]

RO: I set the transporter confinement parameters to
maximum. We should be able to fill our hold with medical supplies with
just one single beam out. 
KALITA: I had no idea it was going to be so easy. 
RO: We're approaching the Federation border. 
KALITA: How do you plan to get out of the Demilitarised Zone without
being searched at one of the checkpoints? 
RO: We're going to cross the border here. 
KALITA: There are sensor buoys all along the border. If we cross
anywhere other than a checkpoint, Starfleet will send a ship to
investigate. 
RO: With the right security codes, we can disable the proximity
detectors on the buoys. 
KALITA: Starfleet changes those codes all the time. 
RO: I know the encryption algorithms. If I can access the buoy's
protocol subsystem I should be able to figure out the codes. 
KALITA: Should be able to? 
RO: Do you want this mission to succeed? 
KALITA: Of course I do. We need those medical supplies. 
RO: In that case, let me do my job. I'm in. 
KALITA: What's wrong? 
RO: If I don't input the right code in the next twenty seconds, we'll
trigger the proximity alarm. 
KALITA: I'm getting us out of sensor range. 
RO: Don't. If we break the comm. link, we won't be able to try again. 
RO: It worked. Until they change the access codes again, we can cross
the border here.

Captain's log, stardate 47943.2. It has been over a
week since Lieutenant Ro left the Enterprise. We have yet to receive
any communication from her.

