SANTOS WORF PICARD MACIAS RO DATA KALITA
wants strong point points tactical got territory table camps

[Ro's quarters]

RO: Starfleet wants me to infiltrate the Maquis? 
PICARD: Because of your recent training, because you're Bajoran, and
because of your past troubles with Starfleet gives you a certain
credibility. 
RO: Well, that's certainly true. And just how soon would this mission
begin? 
PICARD: Immediately. 
RO: I see. I've spent the better part of my life fighting the
Cardassians. I never thought I'd be helping them out. 
PICARD: This is a rare case when our interests and theirs coincide. We
both want peace in the Demilitarised Zone. 
RO: I've heard a lot about the Maquis. One of my instructors at
Tactical Training, a Lieutenant Commander in Starfleet, a man I admired
and respected, he was sympathetic to them. He resigned and left to join
them. 
PICARD: We're all sympathetic, Lieutenant. Our civilian population in
the Demilitarised Zone is in a very difficult situation, but even
sympathy has to end at some point. The peace treaty isn't just a piece
of paper. If the Maquis force us into a war with Cardassia, it could
mean hundreds of thousands of lives. Two years ago, Starfleet would
never have tapped you for this mission. They must have a lot of
confidence in you now. 
RO: The way I see it, there's one good reason to take this mission, and
that's to validate your faith in me.

[Alien bar]

(mostly humanoid, a Vulcan, a Klingon. Ro, in
civilian clothes enters and sits at a table. Worf and Data enter in
uniform, so she grabs the man at the table and kisses him) 
WORF: We are looking for a Bajoran woman, dark hair. 
DATA: She is responsible for the death of a Cardassian soldier. 
WORF: If we learn that she has been here, this establishment will be
closed down. 
SANTOS: You say she had dark hair? 
WORF: Yes. 
SANTOS: She was here. You just missed her. 
DATA: Do you know where she went? 
SANTOS: No. 
(Worf and Data leave, and Ro stops kissing the man. He's disappointed.)

RO: It was really nice meeting you. 
(Ro goes to the bar) 
RO: Thanks. 
SANTOS: So, did you kill that Cardassian? 
RO: Starfleet thinks I did. That's reason enough to hide. Why did you
tell them that I'd left? 
SANTOS: There are worse things a person can do than kill a Cardassian
soldier. 
RO: You don't often meet someone willing to say that out loud. 
SANTOS: In the Zone, there are a lot of us who feel that way. 
RO: I'd like to meet people like that. 
(Santos shoots her)

[Room]

MACIAS: (middle aged man) Don't be afraid. You're
not in danger here. 
SANTOS: What is your name? 
KALITA: Did you kill that Cardassian soldier? 
RO: Who are you? 
SANTOS: We're the people who saved you from Starfleet. 
RO: Thanks, but I'll be going now. 
(Kalita points a weapon at Ro) 
SANTOS: Did you kill that Cardassian? 
RO: Yes. 
KALITA: That's a risky thing to do in the Demilitarised Zone. You can
end up being hunted by Starfleet and the Cardassians. 
RO: Then why did he risk bringing me here? 
KALITA: We're asking the questions. Who are you? 
RO: My name is Ro Laren. I grew up in the Bajoran camps. 
MACIAS: That would explain why you have no love for Cardassians. 
RO: I know what they're capable of. They tortured my father to death
and I was forced to watch. 
SANTOS: Where are you living now? 
RO: Nowhere. I was a Starfleet officer, but I was court-martialled and
sent to the stockade on Jaros Two. I'm not exactly what you'd call
Starfleet material. 
SANTOS: When were you on Jaros? 
RO: What difference does it make? 
KALITA: We want to check your story. When were you there? 
RO: Starfleet let me out about three years ago because I agreed to do
some work for them, mostly having to do with Bajor. But I got tired of
watching them placate the Cardassians, and so I left. 
KALITA: You resigned? 
RO: Not officially. That's part of the reason why they're looking for
me. 
SANTOS: What were you doing on Omara? 
RO: Look, I think I've answered enough of your questions. I would like
to know who you people are. 
MACIAS: Let's say that we sympathise with those who oppose Cardassia. 
RO: Are you Maquis? 
MACIAS: What if we were? 
RO: If you were, I would ask if I could join you and help you fight. 
MACIAS: We'll check your story. Go ahead, I'll keep an eye on her. 
(Kalita hands over the weapon then she and Santos leave. Macias puts
the gun on his chair) 
MACIAS: Come, let's stretch our legs.

[Settlement]

(it's evening and the crickets are singing) 
RO: Aren't you taking a chance by letting me see all of this? What if
my story doesn't check out? What if I'm not who I say I am? 
MACIAS: Well, then we'll have a problem, won't we? 
RO: You are Maquis, aren't you? 
MACIAS: Many of the people here are. 
RO: Starfleet considers you outlaws. They're afraid you'll destroy the
peace treaty. 
MACIAS: They don't understand the situation here in the Zone. I lived
on Juhraya. When the treaty was signed the colony suddenly found itself
in Cardassian territory. Some of us chose to stay, take our chances.
Then one night I was dragged from my bed and beaten. The authorities
clucked their tongues and agreed it was an unfortunate incident, and
did nothing. 
RO: I'm not surprised. The Cardassians intend to make life so
unpleasant for Federation citizens that they'll leave. 
MACIAS: Exactly. And no one seems to see that, except the Maquis. How
old were you when your father was killed? 
RO: I'd rather not talk about it. 
MACIAS: Hungry? Would you like something? 
RO: No, thank you. 
MACIAS: (to replicator) Hasperat. 
RO: You like hasperat? 
MACIAS: An old Bajoran friend of mine used to make it. His was
stronger. He was killed many years ago fighting the Cardassian
occupation of Bajor. I miss his company, and his hasperat. 
RO: My father used to make the strongest hasperat you've ever tasted.
Everything else seems mild by comparison. 
MACIAS: Did he teach you how to make it? 
RO: Yes. But I haven't tried it in years. 
MACIAS: If you would make the brine for a really strong hasperat. I
mean eye watering, tongue searing strong, you'd make an old man very
happy. 
RO: I would enjoy making it again. 
SANTOS: Macias. I've checked with my sources at Starfleet. Her story's
true. 
MACIAS: I was sure it was. Kalita, she'll stay with you until we can
find her a room.

