SANTOS WORF PICARD MACIAS RO DATA NECHAYEV KALITA
difference government watch past stockade tactical table legs risky

[Ready room]

NECHAYEV: No Bularian canaps this time, Captain? 
PICARD: I thought twice was pushing it a little. 
NECHAYEV: It's just as well. They're extremely fattening. 
PICARD: You missed Gul Evek by a matter of hours. I asked him to stay.
I thought that an Admiral's assurances might convince him that we are
trying to deal with this Maquis situation. 
NECHAYEV: Evek manages to make the Cardassians sound like helpless
sheep being preyed on by Federation wolves. The truth is, we caught the
Cardassian government supplying its colonies in the Demilitarised Zone
with weapons. 
PICARD: Gul Evek assured me that they had stopped that practice. 
NECHAYEV: Ha. How comforting. 
PICARD: Admiral, this Maquis situation has you worried. 
NECHAYEV: Believe me, Captain, if I were living that close to the
Cardassians, I'd keep a phaser under my pillow too. But in the last
weeks we've seen signs that the Maquis are moving beyond self-defence.
Their ranks are growing.
They're acquiring ships, weapons. They seem to be preparing for a more
aggressive military posture. We've got to put a stop to them before the
entire Demilitarised Zone ignites. But before we stop them, we have to
find them. They seem to be scattered in small cells around the Zone.
And we don't have reliable intelligence about any of them. 
PICARD: Perhaps you need an undercover operative. 
NECHAYEV: Our thinking exactly. We intend to infiltrate their
organisation, and the person we want to do it is aboard your ship right
now.

[Ro's quarters]

RO: Starfleet wants me to infiltrate the Maquis? 
PICARD: Because of your recent training, because you're Bajoran, and
because of your past troubles with Starfleet gives you a certain
credibility. 
RO: Well, that's certainly true. And just how soon would this mission
begin? 
PICARD: Immediately. 
RO: I see. I've spent the better part of my life fighting the
Cardassians. I never thought I'd be helping them out. 
PICARD: This is a rare case when our interests and theirs coincide. We
both want peace in the Demilitarised Zone. 
RO: I've heard a lot about the Maquis. One of my instructors at
Tactical Training, a Lieutenant Commander in Starfleet, a man I admired
and respected, he was sympathetic to them. He resigned and left to join
them. 
PICARD: We're all sympathetic, Lieutenant. Our civilian population in
the Demilitarised Zone is in a very difficult situation, but even
sympathy has to end at some point. The peace treaty isn't just a piece
of paper. If the Maquis force us into a war with Cardassia, it could
mean hundreds of thousands of lives. Two years ago, Starfleet would
never have tapped you for this mission. They must have a lot of
confidence in you now. 
RO: The way I see it, there's one good reason to take this mission, and
that's to validate your faith in me.

[Alien bar]

(mostly humanoid, a Vulcan, a Klingon. Ro, in
civilian clothes enters and sits at a table. Worf and Data enter in
uniform, so she grabs the man at the table and kisses him) 
WORF: We are looking for a Bajoran woman, dark hair. 
DATA: She is responsible for the death of a Cardassian soldier. 
WORF: If we learn that she has been here, this establishment will be
closed down. 
SANTOS: You say she had dark hair? 
WORF: Yes. 
SANTOS: She was here. You just missed her. 
DATA: Do you know where she went? 
SANTOS: No. 
(Worf and Data leave, and Ro stops kissing the man. He's disappointed.)

RO: It was really nice meeting you. 
(Ro goes to the bar) 
RO: Thanks. 
SANTOS: So, did you kill that Cardassian? 
RO: Starfleet thinks I did. That's reason enough to hide. Why did you
tell them that I'd left? 
SANTOS: There are worse things a person can do than kill a Cardassian
soldier. 
RO: You don't often meet someone willing to say that out loud. 
SANTOS: In the Zone, there are a lot of us who feel that way. 
RO: I'd like to meet people like that. 
(Santos shoots her)

[Room]

MACIAS: (middle aged man) Don't be afraid. You're
not in danger here. 
SANTOS: What is your name? 
KALITA: Did you kill that Cardassian soldier? 
RO: Who are you? 
SANTOS: We're the people who saved you from Starfleet. 
RO: Thanks, but I'll be going now. 
(Kalita points a weapon at Ro) 
SANTOS: Did you kill that Cardassian? 
RO: Yes. 
KALITA: That's a risky thing to do in the Demilitarised Zone. You can
end up being hunted by Starfleet and the Cardassians. 
RO: Then why did he risk bringing me here? 
KALITA: We're asking the questions. Who are you? 
RO: My name is Ro Laren. I grew up in the Bajoran camps. 
MACIAS: That would explain why you have no love for Cardassians. 
RO: I know what they're capable of. They tortured my father to death
and I was forced to watch. 
SANTOS: Where are you living now? 
RO: Nowhere. I was a Starfleet officer, but I was court-martialled and
sent to the stockade on Jaros Two. I'm not exactly what you'd call
Starfleet material. 
SANTOS: When were you on Jaros? 
RO: What difference does it make? 
KALITA: We want to check your story. When were you there? 
RO: Starfleet let me out about three years ago because I agreed to do
some work for them, mostly having to do with Bajor. But I got tired of
watching them placate the Cardassians, and so I left. 
KALITA: You resigned? 
RO: Not officially. That's part of the reason why they're looking for
me. 
SANTOS: What were you doing on Omara? 
RO: Look, I think I've answered enough of your questions. I would like
to know who you people are. 
MACIAS: Let's say that we sympathise with those who oppose Cardassia. 
RO: Are you Maquis? 
MACIAS: What if we were? 
RO: If you were, I would ask if I could join you and help you fight. 
MACIAS: We'll check your story. Go ahead, I'll keep an eye on her. 
(Kalita hands over the weapon then she and Santos leave. Macias puts
the gun on his chair) 
MACIAS: Come, let's stretch our legs.

