SANTOS CRUSHER WORF PICARD GULEVEK RO DATA NECHAYEV

[Sickbay]

GUL EVEK: Do you people have experience treating
Cardassians? 
CRUSHER: Yes. Do you mind? 
PICARD: Gul Evek. I'm sorry that we could not come to your aid sooner. 
GUL EVEK: I suppose we're lucky you came at all. Lately Starfleet seems
to look the other way when the Maquis attack. 
PICARD: I can assure you that is not the case. We're doing everything
in our power to control them. 
GUL EVEK: The fact that my ship was attacked suggests that your efforts
have met with limited success. They came at us with photon torpedoes
and type eight phasers. Tell me, Captain, how do you suppose that a
group of civilians acquired such weaponry? 
PICARD: I can assure you it was not through official channels. 
GUL EVEK: So you don't think the fact that some of the Maquis are
former Starfleet officers has anything to do with it? 
PICARD: Starfleet does not condone the Maquis' actions in the
Demilitarised Zone any more than your government would condone the
paramilitary actions of Cardassian civilians. 
GUL EVEK: We have taken measures to deal with our colonists who have
armed themselves. 
PICARD: Considering that they destroyed a Juhryan freighter less than a
week ago, I would say that your efforts are meeting with limited
success. 
GUL EVEK: Captain, if the Maquis are not stopped, this situation will
continue to escalate to the point where the Cardassian military will
have no choice but to take matters into their own hands.

Captain's log, supplemental. Gul Evek and his crew
have left the Enterprise, and we have proceeded to our rendezvous with
Admiral Nechayev.

[Ready room]

NECHAYEV: No Bularian canaps this time, Captain? 
PICARD: I thought twice was pushing it a little. 
NECHAYEV: It's just as well. They're extremely fattening. 
PICARD: You missed Gul Evek by a matter of hours. I asked him to stay.
I thought that an Admiral's assurances might convince him that we are
trying to deal with this Maquis situation. 
NECHAYEV: Evek manages to make the Cardassians sound like helpless
sheep being preyed on by Federation wolves. The truth is, we caught the
Cardassian government supplying its colonies in the Demilitarised Zone
with weapons. 
PICARD: Gul Evek assured me that they had stopped that practice. 
NECHAYEV: Ha. How comforting. 
PICARD: Admiral, this Maquis situation has you worried. 
NECHAYEV: Believe me, Captain, if I were living that close to the
Cardassians, I'd keep a phaser under my pillow too. But in the last
weeks we've seen signs that the Maquis are moving beyond self-defence.
Their ranks are growing.
They're acquiring ships, weapons. They seem to be preparing for a more
aggressive military posture. We've got to put a stop to them before the
entire Demilitarised Zone ignites. But before we stop them, we have to
find them. They seem to be scattered in small cells around the Zone.
And we don't have reliable intelligence about any of them. 
PICARD: Perhaps you need an undercover operative. 
NECHAYEV: Our thinking exactly. We intend to infiltrate their
organisation, and the person we want to do it is aboard your ship right
now.

[Ro's quarters]

RO: Starfleet wants me to infiltrate the Maquis? 
PICARD: Because of your recent training, because you're Bajoran, and
because of your past troubles with Starfleet gives you a certain
credibility. 
RO: Well, that's certainly true. And just how soon would this mission
begin? 
PICARD: Immediately. 
RO: I see. I've spent the better part of my life fighting the
Cardassians. I never thought I'd be helping them out. 
PICARD: This is a rare case when our interests and theirs coincide. We
both want peace in the Demilitarised Zone. 
RO: I've heard a lot about the Maquis. One of my instructors at
Tactical Training, a Lieutenant Commander in Starfleet, a man I admired
and respected, he was sympathetic to them. He resigned and left to join
them. 
PICARD: We're all sympathetic, Lieutenant. Our civilian population in
the Demilitarised Zone is in a very difficult situation, but even
sympathy has to end at some point. The peace treaty isn't just a piece
of paper. If the Maquis force us into a war with Cardassia, it could
mean hundreds of thousands of lives. Two years ago, Starfleet would
never have tapped you for this mission. They must have a lot of
confidence in you now. 
RO: The way I see it, there's one good reason to take this mission, and
that's to validate your faith in me.

[Alien bar]

(mostly humanoid, a Vulcan, a Klingon. Ro, in
civilian clothes enters and sits at a table. Worf and Data enter in
uniform, so she grabs the man at the table and kisses him) 
WORF: We are looking for a Bajoran woman, dark hair. 
DATA: She is responsible for the death of a Cardassian soldier. 
WORF: If we learn that she has been here, this establishment will be
closed down. 
SANTOS: You say she had dark hair? 
WORF: Yes. 
SANTOS: She was here. You just missed her. 
DATA: Do you know where she went? 
SANTOS: No. 
(Worf and Data leave, and Ro stops kissing the man. He's disappointed.)

RO: It was really nice meeting you. 
(Ro goes to the bar) 
RO: Thanks. 
SANTOS: So, did you kill that Cardassian? 
RO: Starfleet thinks I did. That's reason enough to hide. Why did you
tell them that I'd left? 
SANTOS: There are worse things a person can do than kill a Cardassian
soldier. 
RO: You don't often meet someone willing to say that out loud. 
SANTOS: In the Zone, there are a lot of us who feel that way. 
RO: I'd like to meet people like that. 
(Santos shoots her)

