OBRIEN LAFORGE TASHA PICARD OGAWA CRUSHER DATA

[Engineering]

LAFORGE: We can get more power if we reroute the
primary EPS taps to the deflector array. 
DATA: Agreed. Initiating tachyon pulse. 
LAFORGE: Okay. the pulse is holding steady. We're starting to receive
data from the scan. 
DATA: It will take the computer some time to give us a complete picture
of the anomaly's interior. I suggest we 
(La Forge holds his head in pain) 
DATA: Geordi? What is wrong? 
LAFORGE: I don't know. It's like somebody's sticking an ice pick in my
temples. My visor's picking up all kinds of electromagnetic
fluctuations. 
DATA: Data to Sickbay. Medical emergency in main Engineering.

[Sickbay]

CRUSHER: This is amazing. The DNA in his optic
nerves is regenerating. Geordi, it's as if you're growing new eyes. 
PICARD: How is this possible? 
CRUSHER: It shouldn't be possible at all. There's no medical
explanation for spontaneous regeneration of an organ. 
OGAWA: Doctor we've just gotten reports from two crewmembers who say
they have old scars which are healing themselves. 
DATA: Captain, I believe I have a partial explanation. I have completed
my analysis of the anomaly. It appears to be a multi-phasic temporal
convergence in the space-time continuum. 
CRUSHER: In English, Data. 
DATA: It is, in essence, an eruption of anti-time. 
PICARD: Anti-time? 
DATA: A relatively new concept in temporal mechanics. The relationship
between anti-time and normal time is analogous to the relationship
between antimatter and normal matter. 
PICARD: So if time and anti-time were to collide 
DATA: They would annihilate one other, causing a rupture in space. I
believe this is what happened in the Devron system. The rupture may be
sending out waves of temporal energy which are disrupting the normal
flow of time. 
PICARD: Data, what could have caused this collision of time and
anti-time? 
[Past - Bridge]

DATA: Anti-time, sir?
PICARD: I believe that if you modify the deflectors to send out an
inverse tachyon pulse, then you'll find that the anomaly is a rupture
between time and anti-time. 
DATA: That is a fascinating hypothesis. How did you formulate 
PICARD: I don't have time to discuss it now, Mister Data. Do the
modifications and send out the pulse. Then try working on a theory as
to what caused this rupture. Mister O'Brien, how large is this anomaly?

O'BRIEN: Approximately four hundred million kilometres in diameter,
sir. 
PICARD: I don't understand why it's bigger in the past. 
PICARD: Lieutenant, you have the Bridge. I'll be in my Ready room. 
TASHA: Aye, sir.

