TROI LAFORGE WORF PICARD RIKER CHILTON CREWMAN CRUSHER DATA

[Observation lounge]

LAFORGE: I don't believe him. This has to be
another one of Q's games. He's probably listening to us right now,
getting a big laugh out of watching us jump through his hoops. 
PICARD: Normally I would agree with you, but this time I feel that
somehow it is different. There was a deadly earnestness about him. I
think he's serious. Which means that in some fashion, I am going to be
the cause of the destruction of humanity. 
CRUSHER: But didn't Q say you already had caused it? 
TROI: And that you were causing it now? 
DATA: Given the fact that there is an apparent discontinuity between
the three time periods the Captain has
visited, Q's statement may be accurate, if confusing. 
PICARD: So what am I going to do? Lock myself in a room in all three
different time periods? 
RIKER: Captain, maybe not acting is what causes the destruction of
mankind. What if you were needed on the Bridge at a key moment, and you
weren't there? 
TROI: I don't think we can start second guessing ourselves. I think we
have to proceed normally and deal with each situation as it occurs. 
PICARD: Agreed. I've been thinking about my conversation with Q. He
admitted that he was responsible for my shifting through time. Now it
occurred to me that he might be giving me a chance somehow to save
humanity. 
RIKER: What makes you say that? 
PICARD: Well, he's always had a certain fascination with humanity, with
myself in particular. I think he has more than a passing interest in
what happens to me. 
DATA: That is true. Q's interest in you has always been very similar to
that of a master and his beloved pet. That was only an analogy,
Captain. 
PICARD: If I weren't travelling through time I would never have
realized that the anomaly in the Neutral Zone appeared there in the
past as well. Assuming that's an important piece of a larger puzzle, my
ability to shift through time may be the key to understanding what's
going on. 
CREWMAN [OC]: Captain Picard. 
PICARD: Go ahead. 
CREWMAN [OC]: We're approaching the Neutral Zone, Captain. 
PICARD: We're on our way.

[Bridge]

PICARD: All stop. Initiate long range scans. 
DATA: Captain, there are four warbirds holding position on the Romulan
side of the Neutral Zone. 
WORF: The Federation Starships Concord and Bozeman are holding position
on our side. 
RIKER: A face off. The question is, who's going to move first? 
PICARD: We are. Mister Worf, hail the Romulan flagship. 
WORF: The warbird Terix is responding. 
PICARD: On screen. 
WORF [on viewscreen]: Captain Picard.

[Future - USS Pasteur Bridge]

CRUSHER: Hello, Worf. It's been a long time. 
WORF [on viewscreen]: It is good to see you again. 
CRUSHER: Have you had a chance to read our request? 
WORF [on viewscreen]: Yes. But you must realise I am no longer a member
of the High Council. 
PICARD: But surely, Worf, you must still have some influence. We have
to get into the Neutral Zone. Can't you just get us permission to cross
the border? 
WORF [on viewscreen]: I must refuse. It is for your own safety. The
Neutral Zone is extremely volatile. If Admiral Riker had given you a
starship with a cloak, you would have been safe. It is hard to believe
that even he would refuse to help you. 
PICARD: I don't care what kind of ship we go in. We have to get to the
Devron System. 
WORF [on viewscreen]: I am sorry. My first duty is to the Empire. I
must adhere to regulations. 
PICARD: I know that I'm an old man and I'm out of touch, but the Worf
that I remember was more concerned with things like honour and loyalty
than rules and regulations. But that was a long time ago. Maybe you're
not the Worf once I knew. 
WORF [on viewscreen]: Dor sHo GHA! You have always used your knowledge
of Klingon honour and tradition to get what you want from me. 
PICARD: Because it always works, Worf. Your problem is that you really
do have a sense of honour and you really do care about trust and
loyalty. Don't blame me for knowing you so well. 
WORF [on viewscreen]: Very well. You may cross the border. But only if
I come with you. I am familiar with the Neutral Zone. 
PICARD: Terms accepted. 
(transmission ends) 
CRUSHER: Inform transporter room two to beam the Governor aboard. I
must make one thing very clear, Jean-Luc. If we run into any serious
opposition, I'm taking us back into Federation territory. We aren't
well armed and wouldn't last long in a fight. 
CHILTON: Governor Worf is aboard, Captain. 
CRUSHER: All right. Set course for the Devron system, warp thirteen.
(pause) Once more, for old time's sake? 
(Picard sits in the Captain's chair and raises his hand) 
PICARD: Engage.

