GATES TROI WORF PICARD TOMOLAK [on viewscreen] CHILTON CRUSHER DATA
renegade consequences shall chilton leaving warn conducted anomalies starfield

[Bridge]

TOMOLAK [on viewscreen]: So, Captain how long shall
we stare at each other across the Neutral Zone? 
PICARD: There is an alternative, Tomolak. We each know why we're here.
We could each send one ship into the Neutral Zone to investigate the
anomaly in the Devron System. 
TOMOLAK [on viewscreen]: Has Starfleet Command approved this
arrangement? 
PICARD: No. 
TOMOLAK [on viewscreen]: I like it already. Agreed. One ship from each
side. But I warn you, if another Federation starship tries to enter the
Zone. 
PICARD: There is no need to make threats. We each know the
consequences. 
TOMOLAK [on viewscreen]: Very well. I'll see you in the Devron system. 
(transmission ends) 
PICARD: Helm, set course for the Devron system, warp five. 
GATES: Aye, sir. 
PICARD: Engage. 
(whoosh, and later) 
DATA: Sensors are picking up a large subspace anomaly directly ahead. 
PICARD: All stop. On screen. Full scan, Mister Data. 
DATA: Aye, sir. 
PICARD: We have to get as much information as possible about that
anomaly. 
[Past - Bridge]

DATA: We are approaching the Devron system,
Captain. Sensors are picking up a large subspace anomaly directly
ahead. 
PICARD: All stop. On screen. Then it is larger in the past. 
TROI: Sir? 
PICARD: Nothing. Full scan, Mister Data. 
DATA: Aye, sir.

[Future - USS Pasteur Bridge]

PICARD: On screen! On screen! Let's see it! 
(just a starfield) 
DATA: As you can see, sir, there's nothing there. 
(a little later) 
DATA: Still nothing, Captain. I've conducted a full sensor sweep out to
one light year from the Pasteur. No temporal anomalies, no particle
fluctuations, nothing. 
PICARD: I don't understand. It was here in the other two time periods.
Why isn't it here now? 
WORF: Captain. I have been monitoring Klingon communication channels.
Several warships have been dispatched to this sector to search for a
renegade Federation vessel. 
PICARD: You're not thinking about leaving? 
CRUSHER: There's nothing here, Jean-Luc. 
PICARD: There should be! There has to be! Data, is there some other way
to scan for a temporal disturbance? Something that isn't covered in a
normal sensor sweep. 
DATA: There are several methods of detecting temporal disturbances, but
we're limited by the equipment on the Pasteur. 
CRUSHER: We should head back to Federation territory. 
DATA: However, it may be possible to modify the main deflector to emit
an inverse tachyon pulse, which could scan beyond the subspace barrier.

PICARD: That's it. Make it so. 
CRUSHER: Wait a minute. Data, how long would this take? 
DATA: To make the modifications and search the entire Devron system
will take approximately fourteen hours. 
CRUSHER: All right. Data, begin to modify the tachyon pulse. Ensign
Chilton, lay in a course back to the Federation. We'll stay here for
six more hours, and if we haven't found anything we're heading back,
maximum warp. 
CHILTON: Aye, sir. 
PICARD: But six more hours may not be enough. We have to stay here
until we find it, no matter how long it takes. 
CRUSHER: Carry out my orders. May I see you a moment?

