RIKER [on monitor] TROI TASHA PICARD CHILTON COMPUTER TASHA [OC] RIKER [OC] CRUSHER WORF [on viewscreen] O'BRIEN
refuse responding terms taking yar blame beverage adhere really

[Future - USS Pasteur Bridge]

CRUSHER: Hello, Worf. It's been a long time. 
WORF [on viewscreen]: It is good to see you again. 
CRUSHER: Have you had a chance to read our request? 
WORF [on viewscreen]: Yes. But you must realise I am no longer a member
of the High Council. 
PICARD: But surely, Worf, you must still have some influence. We have
to get into the Neutral Zone. Can't you just get us permission to cross
the border? 
WORF [on viewscreen]: I must refuse. It is for your own safety. The
Neutral Zone is extremely volatile. If Admiral Riker had given you a
starship with a cloak, you would have been safe. It is hard to believe
that even he would refuse to help you. 
PICARD: I don't care what kind of ship we go in. We have to get to the
Devron System. 
WORF [on viewscreen]: I am sorry. My first duty is to the Empire. I
must adhere to regulations. 
PICARD: I know that I'm an old man and I'm out of touch, but the Worf
that I remember was more concerned with things like honour and loyalty
than rules and regulations. But that was a long time ago. Maybe you're
not the Worf once I knew. 
WORF [on viewscreen]: Dor sHo GHA! You have always used your knowledge
of Klingon honour and tradition to get what you want from me. 
PICARD: Because it always works, Worf. Your problem is that you really
do have a sense of honour and you really do care about trust and
loyalty. Don't blame me for knowing you so well. 
WORF [on viewscreen]: Very well. You may cross the border. But only if
I come with you. I am familiar with the Neutral Zone. 
PICARD: Terms accepted. 
(transmission ends) 
CRUSHER: Inform transporter room two to beam the Governor aboard. I
must make one thing very clear, Jean-Luc. If we run into any serious
opposition, I'm taking us back into Federation territory. We aren't
well armed and wouldn't last long in a fight. 
CHILTON: Governor Worf is aboard, Captain. 
CRUSHER: All right. Set course for the Devron system, warp thirteen.
(pause) Once more, for old time's sake? 
(Picard sits in the Captain's chair and raises his hand) 
PICARD: Engage.

[Past - Bridge]

O'BRIEN: Engage to where, sir? 
PICARD: Set a course for the Devron system, and engage at warp nine. 
TASHA: The Devron System is inside the Neutral Zone, sir. 
PICARD: I'm aware of that, Lieutenant. Carry out my orders, Chief. 
O'BRIEN: Aye, sir. 
TROI: Captain, may I have a word with you in private? 
PICARD: Yes of course, Counsellor. Contact Farpoint Station. I wish to
speak with Commander Riker. 
TASHA: Aye, sir.

[Past - Ready room]

TROI: Captain, I just wanted to voice my concerns
about the way the crew is responding to your unexpected orders. 
PICARD: They don't trust me. They think that I'm behaving erratically. 
TROI: Some do. Others are confused. It takes some time for a new crew
to get to know their Captain, and for him to know them. 
PICARD: I understand, but I also know what this crew is capable of,
even if they don't. 
TROI: It would also help if they knew what was going on. 
PICARD: I know it's difficult operating in the dark, but right now I
don't think I have any other choice. 
TASHA [OC]: Yar to Captain Picard. I have Commander Riker for you, sir.

PICARD: Excuse me. Put him through here. Commander Riker. I wanted to
inform you that we'll be delayed in picking you up at Farpoint Station.

(we see Farpoint Riker on the monitor, but cut away when he's supposed
to be speaking) 
RIKER [OC]: I see. May I ask how long? 
PICARD: I can't say. I'll keep you updated. Will you inform Doctor
Crusher and Lieutenant La Forge of our delay? 
RIKER [on monitor]: Understood. 
RIKER [OC]: Riker out. 
PICARD: Is there anything else, Counsellor? 
TROI: Actually, sir, there is. I was debating whether to mention it,
and perhaps. It's about Commander Riker. 
PICARD: What about him? 
TROI: I think you should know he and I have had a prior relationship. 
PICARD: I see. Do you think this will interfere with your duties? 
TROI: Not at all. It happened several years ago and it's well behind
both of us now. I just thought you should know. 
PICARD: I appreciate your telling me, but I'm quite sure that the two
of you will find some way to deal with the situation. 
TROI: Thank you, sir. 
(Troi leaves) 
PICARD: Tea, Earl Grey, hot. 
COMPUTER: That beverage has not been programmed into the replication
system.

