TROI LAFORGE WORF PICARD RIKER CRUSHER DATA

[Observation lounge]

PICARD: Counsellor, do you remember when I first
came on board the Enterprise? 
TROI: Yes. 
PICARD: What happened after the welcoming ceremony? 
TROI: There was a reception in Ten Forward. I introduced you to Worf
and the other senior officers. 
PICARD: Do you have any memory of my calling Red Alert in Spacedock? Do
you remember Starfleet diverting us from Farpoint to the Neutral Zone
to investigate a spatial anomaly? 
TROI: No. 
DATA: It would appear there is a discontinuity between the time periods
you described. Events in one time period would seem to have no effect
on the other two. 
RIKER: And yet in both the past and the present there's a report of the
same anomaly in the Devron System. I find it hard to believe that
that's a coincidence. 
PICARD: For all I know, I may find the same thing in the future. 
LAFORGE: Perhaps the anomaly is a temporal disturbance of some kind. 
CRUSHER: How is all this related to your time shifting? 
PICARD: These are all very important questions, and perhaps I will find
answers to them in the past, but now we have a potentially dangerous
threat from the Romulans. I want all departments to present a battle
readiness report to me at oh eight hundred hours tomorrow morning.
Dismissed. 
RIKER: Deanna, it's going to be a late night. Would you like to have
some dinner first? 
TROI: Actually I, we have plans. 
RIKER: Oh. I see. I'm sorry. I'll see you in the morning. 
WORF: Goodnight, sir. 
RIKER: Worf. 
[Bridge]

PICARD: I want continuous subspace sweeps. We may
be able to detect a temporal disturbance. 
DATA: Aye, sir. 
PICARD: Will, this time shifting. When it happens I experience a
momentary disorientation. If that should happen during a crisis, I want
you to take command immediately. Number One? 
RIKER: I'm sorry. Be prepared to take command. Aye, sir. 
PICARD: Speaking of disorientation, are you all right? 
RIKER: I'm just a little distracted. I'm fine. 
PICARD: You have the Bridge, Number One. I'll be in my Ready room.

[Ready room]

PICARD: Come. 
CRUSHER: Milk, warm, a dash of nutmeg. 
PICARD: What's this? 
CRUSHER: A prescription. A glass of warm milk and eight hours
uninterrupted sleep. 
PICARD: Beverly. 
CRUSHER: Doctor's orders. You're exhausted. Look, I don't know whether
you've slept in the past or in the future, but I'm sure you haven't
slept in the present. Now get some rest, or I'll have you relieved and
sedated. 
PICARD: Yes, sir. What? Hey, Beverly? 
CRUSHER: As a physician, it's often my job to give people unpleasant
news. To tell them that they need surgery or that they can't have
children or that they might be facing a difficult illness. 
PICARD: But you said yourself that this is only a possibility. 
CRUSHER: But you've been to the future. You know it's going to happen. 
PICARD: I prefer to look on the future as something which is not
written in stone. A lot of things can happen in twenty five years. 
(they kiss) 
CRUSHER: A lot of things can happen. 
LAFORGE [OC]: Captain? 
