PICARD RIKER CRUSHER WORF GAINES
bridge temporary worf entire began thirteen beverly sorry fine

[Future Bridge]

(everyone is beamed onto the bridge)
GAINES: All the Pasteur's crew are safely on board, Admiral. 
RIKER: Raise the shields. Where are the Klingons? 
GAINES: They're still moving off, sir. Half a light year away. 
RIKER: They'll be back. As I said, I figured you wouldn't take no for
answer. (to Worf) But I thought you had more sense than to send a
defenceless ship across the border into hostile territory with no
escort. 
WORF: If you had not turned down the Captain when he came to you for
help, none of this would have happened. Unlike you, I still have a
sense of honour and loyalty. 
PICARD: We don't have time for this. The Pasteur's core is going to
breach. 
RIKER: Take us out of here. Full impulse. 
(KaBOOM) 
RIKER: All right, let's get out of here. 
PICARD: No, Will, we can't! We have to save humanity. 
RIKER: Engage cloak. 
GAINES: Admiral, we took a direct hit to the starboard plasma coil. Our
cloak isn't functioning. Engineering reports it'll be seven hours
before we can cloak again. 
RIKER: All right, we'll do it the old-fashioned way. Set a course for
the Federation, warp thirteen. 
PICARD: Will, don't leave! We have to stay here and find what is
causing the temporal anomaly. 
RIKER: We can't stay, Captain. 
PICARD: We have to! Everything depends on it! We can't leave now!
Please, listen to me! 
(Beverly knocks him out with a hypo)

[Corridor]

(as Picard passes out in the future, he bumps into
a crewman in the present)

[Sickbay]

CRUSHER: Your visual acuity's improving by the
hour, Geordi. 
(she goes over to another bed) 
CRUSHER: I'm sorry, Alyssa. May I take another look? You'll have a
little tenderness for a few days. That's to be expected. 
(Picard enters) 
CRUSHER: Jean-Luc. I'll be right back, Alyssa. 
(she moves away from Alyssa and her husband) 
CRUSHER: Alyssa lost the baby. I think it's the same phenomenon that
affected Geordi. Somehow, the temporal energy from the anomaly caused
the foetal tissue to revert to an earlier stage of development. It's as
if the unborn child began to grow younger, until finally the DNA itself
began to break down. 
PICARD: How is she? 
CRUSHER: Physically, she's fine for now. But if this temporal reversion
continues, I don't think any of us are going to be fine for much
longer. 
PICARD: So this is affecting the entire crew. 
CRUSHER: Our cellular structures appear to be coalescing, reverting to
earlier forms. In some cases, this has caused old injuries to be
healed, but the effect is only temporary. Eventually, may kill all of
us.

