TROI OBRIEN LAFORGE WORF PICARD RIKER FLETCHER CRUSHER DATA

[Past - Engineering]

PICARD: Mister O'Brien, will you use these
specifications to bypass the secondary plasma inducer. 
O'BRIEN: You have to realise sir, this isn't exactly my area of
expertise. The Chief Engineer should be making these modifications. 
PICARD: But the Chief Engineer isn't on board. Mister O'Brien, trust
me. I know you can do it. All those years you spent as a child building
those model starship engines. They were well worth it. 
O'BRIEN: How did you know that, sir? 
PICARD: From your Starfleet records. 
O'BRIEN: Yes, sir. I'll get right to these modifications. Fletcher,
tell Munoz and Lee to get up here right away. 
FLETCHER: Aye, sir. 
(Picard goes to a wall console and Data enters) 
O'BRIEN: We have to realign the entire power grid. We'll all be burning
the midnight oil on this one. 
DATA: That would be inadvisable. 
O'BRIEN: Excuse me? 
DATA: If you attempt to ignite a petroleum product on this ship at zero
hundred hours, it will activate the fire suppression system, which
would seal off this entire compartment. 
O'BRIEN: That was just an expression. 
DATA: Expression of what? 
O'BRIEN: A figure of speech. I was trying to tell him that we'd be
working late. 
DATA: Ah. Then to burn the midnight oil implies late work? 
O'BRIEN: That's right. 
DATA: I am curious. What is the etymology of that idiom? How did it
come to be used in contemporary language? 
O'BRIEN: I don't know, sir. 
PICARD: Commander Data, welcome on board. It's so very good to see you.

DATA: It is good to see you, too, sir. 
PICARD: I could use your help with the infuser array. 
DATA: Certainly. 
PICARD: As you can see, we're having difficulty with the plasma
conduits. 
DATA: This will need a completely new field induction subprocessor. It
appears that we will be required to ignite the midnight petroleum, sir.

CRUSHER [OC]: Jean-Luc, what's going on?

[Doctor's office]

PICARD: It happened again. 
CRUSHER: A time shift? 
PICARD: Yes. 
RIKER: What happened? 
PICARD: It's still a little vague, but I can remember more this time.
It seems that every time I shift periods, I can retain more memory. At
first, it appeared that I was in the future, years from now, and then I
was in the past just before our first mission. 
RIKER: What is it? 
CRUSHER: I just scanned his temporal lobe and compared it to the scan I
performed just a few minutes before. There's a thirteen percent
increase in the acetylcholine of the hippocampus. Within a matter of
minutes, you have accumulated over two days worth of memories.

[Observation lounge]

PICARD: Counsellor, do you remember when I first
came on board the Enterprise? 
TROI: Yes. 
PICARD: What happened after the welcoming ceremony? 
TROI: There was a reception in Ten Forward. I introduced you to Worf
and the other senior officers. 
PICARD: Do you have any memory of my calling Red Alert in Spacedock? Do
you remember Starfleet diverting us from Farpoint to the Neutral Zone
to investigate a spatial anomaly? 
TROI: No. 
DATA: It would appear there is a discontinuity between the time periods
you described. Events in one time period would seem to have no effect
on the other two. 
RIKER: And yet in both the past and the present there's a report of the
same anomaly in the Devron System. I find it hard to believe that
that's a coincidence. 
PICARD: For all I know, I may find the same thing in the future. 
LAFORGE: Perhaps the anomaly is a temporal disturbance of some kind. 
CRUSHER: How is all this related to your time shifting? 
PICARD: These are all very important questions, and perhaps I will find
answers to them in the past, but now we have a potentially dangerous
threat from the Romulans. I want all departments to present a battle
readiness report to me at oh eight hundred hours tomorrow morning.
Dismissed. 
RIKER: Deanna, it's going to be a late night. Would you like to have
some dinner first? 
TROI: Actually I, we have plans. 
RIKER: Oh. I see. I'm sorry. I'll see you in the morning. 
WORF: Goodnight, sir. 
RIKER: Worf. 
