TROI LAFORGE CREWMAN PICARD RIKER WORF CRUSHER DATA

[Bridge]

PICARD: Commander, assemble the senior staff and go
to Red alert. We have a bigger problem than I thought. 
RIKER: Red alert!

[Observation lounge]

LAFORGE: I don't believe him. This has to be
another one of Q's games. He's probably listening to us right now,
getting a big laugh out of watching us jump through his hoops. 
PICARD: Normally I would agree with you, but this time I feel that
somehow it is different. There was a deadly earnestness about him. I
think he's serious. Which means that in some fashion, I am going to be
the cause of the destruction of humanity. 
CRUSHER: But didn't Q say you already had caused it? 
TROI: And that you were causing it now? 
DATA: Given the fact that there is an apparent discontinuity between
the three time periods the Captain has
visited, Q's statement may be accurate, if confusing. 
PICARD: So what am I going to do? Lock myself in a room in all three
different time periods? 
RIKER: Captain, maybe not acting is what causes the destruction of
mankind. What if you were needed on the Bridge at a key moment, and you
weren't there? 
TROI: I don't think we can start second guessing ourselves. I think we
have to proceed normally and deal with each situation as it occurs. 
PICARD: Agreed. I've been thinking about my conversation with Q. He
admitted that he was responsible for my shifting through time. Now it
occurred to me that he might be giving me a chance somehow to save
humanity. 
RIKER: What makes you say that? 
PICARD: Well, he's always had a certain fascination with humanity, with
myself in particular. I think he has more than a passing interest in
what happens to me. 
DATA: That is true. Q's interest in you has always been very similar to
that of a master and his beloved pet. That was only an analogy,
Captain. 
PICARD: If I weren't travelling through time I would never have
realized that the anomaly in the Neutral Zone appeared there in the
past as well. Assuming that's an important piece of a larger puzzle, my
ability to shift through time may be the key to understanding what's
going on. 
CREWMAN [OC]: Captain Picard. 
PICARD: Go ahead. 
CREWMAN [OC]: We're approaching the Neutral Zone, Captain. 
PICARD: We're on our way.

[Bridge]

PICARD: All stop. Initiate long range scans. 
DATA: Captain, there are four warbirds holding position on the Romulan
side of the Neutral Zone. 
WORF: The Federation Starships Concord and Bozeman are holding position
on our side. 
RIKER: A face off. The question is, who's going to move first? 
PICARD: We are. Mister Worf, hail the Romulan flagship. 
WORF: The warbird Terix is responding. 
PICARD: On screen. 
WORF [on viewscreen]: Captain Picard.

