WORF PICARD Q CHILTON CRUSHER DATA

[Future - USS Pasteur Bridge]

PICARD: On screen! On screen! Let's see it! 
(just a starfield) 
DATA: As you can see, sir, there's nothing there. 
(a little later) 
DATA: Still nothing, Captain. I've conducted a full sensor sweep out to
one light year from the Pasteur. No temporal anomalies, no particle
fluctuations, nothing. 
PICARD: I don't understand. It was here in the other two time periods.
Why isn't it here now? 
WORF: Captain. I have been monitoring Klingon communication channels.
Several warships have been dispatched to this sector to search for a
renegade Federation vessel. 
PICARD: You're not thinking about leaving? 
CRUSHER: There's nothing here, Jean-Luc. 
PICARD: There should be! There has to be! Data, is there some other way
to scan for a temporal disturbance? Something that isn't covered in a
normal sensor sweep. 
DATA: There are several methods of detecting temporal disturbances, but
we're limited by the equipment on the Pasteur. 
CRUSHER: We should head back to Federation territory. 
DATA: However, it may be possible to modify the main deflector to emit
an inverse tachyon pulse, which could scan beyond the subspace barrier.

PICARD: That's it. Make it so. 
CRUSHER: Wait a minute. Data, how long would this take? 
DATA: To make the modifications and search the entire Devron system
will take approximately fourteen hours. 
CRUSHER: All right. Data, begin to modify the tachyon pulse. Ensign
Chilton, lay in a course back to the Federation. We'll stay here for
six more hours, and if we haven't found anything we're heading back,
maximum warp. 
CHILTON: Aye, sir. 
PICARD: But six more hours may not be enough. We have to stay here
until we find it, no matter how long it takes. 
CRUSHER: Carry out my orders. May I see you a moment?

[Future - USS Pasteur Ready room]

PICARD: Beverly, I cannot believe that you are not
willing to stay here until we 
CRUSHER: Don't you ever question my orders on the Bridge of my ship
again! 
PICARD: Damn it, I was just trying to. Look, there are larger concerns
here. What you don't understand is that 
CRUSHER: I understand that you would never have tolerated that kind of
behaviour back on the Enterprise and I won't here. I don't care if
you're my ex-Captain or my ex-husband. 
PICARD: You're right. I was out of line. It won't happen again. But
what you have to understand is what is at stake here. Q has said that
all of humanity will be destroyed. 
CRUSHER: I know. That's why I've allowed us to stay here longer and
keep looking. But I also want you to allow for the possibility that
none of what you're saying is real. 
PICARD: What? 
CRUSHER: Jean-Luc, I care for you too much not to tell you the truth.
You have advanced Irumodic Syndrome. It's
possible that all of this is in your mind. I'll stay here six hours
longer and then we're heading home. I want you to remember, if it were
anyone but you, we wouldn't even be here. 
(Crusher leaves, Q appears as a ancient man with an ear trumpet) 
Q: Eh? What was that she said, sonny? I couldn't quite hear her. 
PICARD: Q? What is going on here? Where is the anomaly? 
Q: Where's your mommy? Well, I don't know. 
PICARD: Answer me. 
Q: There is an answer, Jean-Luc, but I can't hand it to you. Although
you do have help. 
PICARD: What help? 
Q: You're not alone, you know. What you were and what you are to become
will always with you. 
PICARD: My time shifting. The answer does lie there, doesn't it. Now,
tell me one thing. This anomaly we're looking for, will that destroy
humanity? 
Q: You're forgetting, Jean-Luc. You destroy humanity. 
PICARD: By doing what? When? How can 
[Bridge]

PICARD: Report, Mister Data. 
DATA: The anomaly is two hundred million kilometres in diameter. It is
a highly focused temporal energy source which is emitting approximately
the same energy output as ten G type stars. 
PICARD: What is the source of this energy? 
DATA: I am uncertain, sir. Sensors are unable to penetrate the anomaly.

PICARD: What if we modified the main deflector to emit an inverse
tachyon pulse. That might be able to scan beyond the subspace barrier.
That might give us some idea of what the interior of this thing looks
like. 
DATA: That is a most intriguing idea, sir. I do not believe a tachyon
beam was ever used in such a way. I had no idea you were so versed in
the intricacies of temporal theory, sir. 
PICARD: I have some friends who are quite well versed in it. Make it
so. 
DATA: I believe we can make the necessary modifications in main
Engineering, sir.

