Q PICARD TROI CRUSHER DATA

[Sickbay]

CRUSHER: Your visual acuity's improving by the
hour, Geordi. 
(she goes over to another bed) 
CRUSHER: I'm sorry, Alyssa. May I take another look? You'll have a
little tenderness for a few days. That's to be expected. 
(Picard enters) 
CRUSHER: Jean-Luc. I'll be right back, Alyssa. 
(she moves away from Alyssa and her husband) 
CRUSHER: Alyssa lost the baby. I think it's the same phenomenon that
affected Geordi. Somehow, the temporal energy from the anomaly caused
the foetal tissue to revert to an earlier stage of development. It's as
if the unborn child began to grow younger, until finally the DNA itself
began to break down. 
PICARD: How is she? 
CRUSHER: Physically, she's fine for now. But if this temporal reversion
continues, I don't think any of us are going to be fine for much
longer. 
PICARD: So this is affecting the entire crew. 
CRUSHER: Our cellular structures appear to be coalescing, reverting to
earlier forms. In some cases, this has caused old injuries to be
healed, but the effect is only temporary. Eventually, may kill all of
us.

[Observation lounge]

PICARD: We have to find out how widespread this
effect is. Contact Starbase Twenty three, that's the nearest outpost.
Have them check their personnel to see if there are any signs of
temporal reversion. 
TROI: Aye, sir. 
PICARD: Mister Data, how close are you to completing the tachyon scan? 
DATA: Approximately one hour forty five minutes, sir. 
PICARD: Good. When it's done I want you to find some way of collapsing
this anomaly without making things worse. Give me a risk analysis of
whatever solution you come up with. 
DATA: Aye, sir. 
PICARD: Dismissed. 
(Data, Troi and Riker leave) 
Q: It's a pretty big decision, Jean-Luc. Tinkering with an anomaly you
know nothing about, trying to collapse it. Isn't that risky? 
PICARD: Why? Will that cause the destruction of mankind? 
Q: Maybe. On the other hand, maybe leaving it alone would be the wrong
thing to do. It's a pretty big decision, all right. Would it help to
have a different perspective? 
[Primordial Earth]

Q: Welcome home. 
PICARD: Home? 
Q: Don't you recognise your old stomping grounds? This is Earth,
France, about, oh, three and a half billion years ago, give or take an
eon or two. Smells awful, doesn't it? All that sulphur and volcanic
ash. I really must speak to the maid. 
PICARD: Q, is there any point to all this? 
Q: Look. 
(a purple sky is dominated by a swirling white) 
PICARD: So the anomaly is here too, at Earth. 
Q: At this point in history the anomaly fills your entire quadrant of
the galaxy. 
PICARD: The further back in time, the larger the anomaly. 
Q: Come here. There's something I want to show you. You see this?
(a sludge filled pond) 
Q: This is you. I'm serious. Right here, life is about to form on this
planet for the very first time. A group of amino acids are about to
combine and form the first protein, the building blocks of what you
call life. Strange, isn't it?
Everything you know, your entire civilisation, it all begins right here
in this little pond of goo. Appropriate, somehow, isn't it? Too bad you
didn't bring your microscope. It's really quite fascinating. Oh, look,
there they go. The amino acids are moving closer and closer, and
closer. Oh! Nothing happened. See what you've done? 
PICARD: Are you saying that I caused the anomaly, and that the anomaly
somehow disrupted the beginnings of life on Earth? 
Q: Congratulations.

