TROI WORF PICARD RIKER OGAWA CRUSHER NAKAMURA

[Troi's quarters]

TROI: Captain? Captain? 
PICARD: Tasha. I was just with Tasha in the shuttle. 
[Sickbay]

CRUSHER: I've finished the neurographic scan. I
don't see anything that might cause hallucinations or a psychogenic
reaction. 
TROI: Is there any indication of temporal displacement? 
CRUSHER: No. Usually a temporal shift would leave some kind of
triptamine residue in the cerebral cortex, but the scan didn't show
any. Personally, I think you just enjoy waking everybody up in the
middle of the night. 
PICARD: Actually, I really like running around the ship in my bare
feet. 
OGAWA: (visibly pregnant) The biospectral test results, Doctor. 
CRUSHER: Your blood gas analysis is consistent with someone who's been
breathing the ship's air for weeks. If you'd been somewhere else, there
would be an indication of change in the oxygen isotope ratios. Thanks.
Deanna, would you excuse us please? 
TROI: Of course. 
(Troi leaves) 
CRUSHER: Jean-Luc, I scanned for evidence of Irumodic Syndrome, as you
suggested. There wasn't any. But I did find a small structural defect
in the parietal lobe. 
PICARD: A defect that you hadn't noticed before? 
CRUSHER: It's the kind of defect that would only show up on a level
four neurographic scan. It could cause you to be susceptible to several
kinds of neurological disorders including Irumodic Syndrome. Now, it's
possible for you to live with this defect for the rest of your life
without developing a problem. Or even if you do, many people continue
to live normal lives for a long time after the onset of Irumodic
Syndrome. 
PICARD: If that's so, why do you look like you've just signed my death
sentence? 
CRUSHER: I'm sorry. I guess it caught me off guard. 
PICARD: I wouldn't worry about it. Something tells me that you're going
to have to put up with me for a long time to come. 
CRUSHER: Well, it won't be easy, but I'll manage. 
(Riker enters) 
RIKER: Captain. 
PICARD: Has Worf found anything? 
RIKER: No, sir. His security scans came up negative. They're still
checking the sensor logs but there is no indication that you ever left
the ship. 
PICARD: I wasn't dreaming. Something happened. 
WORF [OC]: Worf to Captain. 
PICARD: Go ahead, Mister Worf. 
WORF: Sir, there is an incoming transmission from Admiral Nakamura. It
is a priority one message. 
PICARD: Beverly? Mister Worf, will you route the call through to Doctor
Crusher's office. 
WORF: Aye, sir. 
[Crusher's office]

NAKAMURA [on monitor]: Captain. 
PICARD: Admiral. 
NAKAMURA [on monitor]: I am initiating a fleet-wide Yellow Alert.
Starfleet intelligence has picked up some alarming reports from the
Romulan Empire. It appears that at least thirty Warbirds have been
pulled from other assignments and are headed for the Neutral Zone. 
PICARD: Is there any explanation why they would make such a blatantly
aggressive move? 
NAKAMURA [on monitor]: Our operatives on Romulus have indicated that
there appears to be something happening in the Neutral Zone,
specifically in the Devron System. Our own long range scans have picked
up some kind of spatial anomaly in the area. We can't tell what it is. 
PICARD: What are our orders? 
NAKAMURA [on monitor]: This is a very delicate situation. I am
deploying fifteen starships along our side of the Neutral Zone. I want
you to go there as well. See if you can find out what is going on in
the Devron System. 
PICARD: Am I authorised to enter the Neutral Zone? 
NAKAMURA [on monitor]: Not yet. Wait and see what the Romulans do. You
can conduct long range scans, send probes if necessary, but do not
cross the border unless they do. 
PICARD: Understood. 
NAKAMURA [on monitor]: Starfleet out.

