TROI OBRIEN WORF TASHA PICARD RIKER HELM DATA

[Past - Bridge]

PICARD: It may be dangerous to take the ship in. 
O'BRIEN: Take the ship in where, sir? 
PICARD: Into the anomaly, Chief. Lay in a course for the exact centre
and transfer all available power to the shields. 
TASHA: Sir? Can you give us some explanation? 
PICARD: No, Lieutenant, I cannot. 
TASHA: Captain, so far we've obeyed every order, no matter how far
fetched it might have seemed. But if we're to risk the safety of the
ship and crew I think we have to ask you for an explanation. 
PICARD: I understand your concerns, Lieutenant, and I know if I were in
your position I would be doing the same thing. Looking for answers. But
you're not going to find any because I don't have any to give you. I
know it is difficult for you to understand, but we have to take the
ship into the very centre of the phenomenon and create a static warp
shell. Now, this will put the ship at risk. Quite frankly, we may not
survive. But I want you to believe that I am doing this for a greater
purpose, and that what is at stake here is more than any of you can
possibly imagine. I know you have your doubts about me, about each
other, about the ship. All I can say is that although we have only been
together for a short time, I know that you are the finest crew in the
fleet and I would trust each of you with my life. So, I am asking you
for a leap of faith, and to trust me. 
TASHA: Shields up, maximum strength. 
WORF: Boosting field integrity to the warp nacelles. We may encounter
shearing forces once we enter the anomaly. 
DATA: I am preparing to initiate a static warp shell. 
O'BRIEN: Course laid in, sir. 
TROI: All decks report ready, sir. 
PICARD: Take us in, Chief.

[Bridge]

DATA: Captain, I have an idea. If we take the ship
to the centre of the anomaly and create a static warp shell 
PICARD: A static warp shell. It could repair the barrier and collapse
the anomaly. 
DATA: Yes, sir. 
PICARD: Mister Data, you're a clever man in any time period. Helm, lay
in a course for the centre of the anomaly and prepare to initiate a
static warp shell. 
HELM: Aye, sir. 
[Future - Bridge]

PICARD: The other two Enterprises, they're on their
way. 
RIKER: Very well. Ensign, take us in. 

