TROI WORF TASHA PICARD O'BRIEN O'BRIEN [OC]
cancelling families spacedock doesn uniform understood 41153 date come

[Past Shuttlebay]

TASHA: Commanding officer Enterprise arriving. 
(Picard is piped aboard. Troi is back in her mini-uniform but not the
bun.) 
PICARD: To Captain Jean-Luc Picard, stardate 41148 
(three people jeering from the upper level) 
PICARD: You are hereby requested and required to take command 
(four of them behind him) 
PICARD: to take command of the USS Enterprise as of this date. Signed
Rear Admiral Norah Satie, Starfleet Command. 
(just as he goes to shake Troi's hand, he sees more) 
PICARD: Red Alert! All crew to battle stations. 
(Guy Vardeman, Colm Meaney and the others hesitate) 
TASHA: You heard him. Move! 
Personal log, stardate 41153.7. Recorded under
security lockout Omega three two seven. I have decided not to inform
this crew of my experiences. If it's true that I've travelled to the
past, I cannot risk giving them foreknowledge of what's to come. 
[Past - Observation lounge]

PICARD: Report. 
TASHA: We've completed a full subspace scan of the ship and surrounding
space. We've detected no unusual readings or anomalies. 
WORF: With all due respect, sir, it would be helpful if we knew exactly
what we were looking for. 
PICARD: Noted. Counsellor, do you sense anything unusual on board the
Enterprise? Perhaps an alien presence that doesn't
belong here, maybe one operating on a level of intelligence far
superior to our own? 
TROI: No, sir. I'm only aware of the crew and the families on board the
ship. 
PICARD: Mister Worf, initiate a level two security alert on all decks
until further notice. 
TASHA: With all due respect, sir, I'm the Security Chief on this ship.
Unless you're planning to make a change. 
PICARD: No, of course not. Lieutenant, security alert two. 
TASHA: Aye, sir. 
O'BRIEN [OC]: Captain Picard to the Bridge, please. 
PICARD: We're on our way, Chief.

[Past - Bridge]

O'BRIEN: Sir, Starfleet has just issued an alert.
It appears a number of vessels are moving toward the Neutral Zone
between Romulan and Federation space. 
TASHA: What kind of vessels? 
O'BRIEN: Freighters, transports, all civilians. None of them Starfleet
ships. 
PICARD: This tells me that a large spatial anomaly has appeared in the
Neutral Zone, in the Devron System. 
WORF: Captain, it could be a Romulan trick to lure our ships into the
Neutral Zone as an excuse for a military strike. 
O'BRIEN: Starfleet's cancelling our mission to Farpoint Station and
ordering us to the Neutral Zone as soon as we leave the Spacedock. 
PICARD: No, we'll proceed to Farpoint. 
TASHA: Sir? 
PICARD: You heard me. 
WORF: Captain, the security of the Federation could be at stake. 
PICARD: Mister Worf, will you man your station. 
WORF: Aye, sir. 
TROI: Captain, perhaps if we understood your thinking, if you could
explain 
PICARD: I've no intention of explaining to anyone. We will proceed with
our mission to Farpoint as planned. Chief O'Brien, am I right in
thinking that you're having a problem with the warp plasma inducers. 
O'BRIEN: That's right, sir. 
PICARD: Well I know how to get them back online. You're with me. We'll
be in main Engineering. 
