RIKER LAFORGE WORF TASHA PICARD Q GAINES DATA

[Future - Bridge]

GAINES: We've entered the anomaly.

[Past - Bridge]

DATA: We have reached the centre, sir. 
PICARD: Initiate warp shell!

[Bridge]

DATA: Initiating static warp shell now.

[Future - Bridge]

RIKER: Is it having any effect?

[Past - Bridge]

DATA: Something is happening. A new subspace
barrier appears to be forming, 
TASHA: Captain, the sensors are picking up two other ships. 
(and we see the other Enterprises on the three viewscreens)

[Past - Bridge]

DATA: Captain, it appears to be working. The
anomaly is beginning to collapse. I think that 
TASHA: Temporal energy is rupturing our warp containment system! 
WORF: We must eject the core! 
PICARD: No, we have to maintain the static warp shell as long as
possible! 
TASHA: We're losing containment, Captain! I can't stop it, it's going
to 
(KaBOOM!)

[Bridge]

PICARD: Transfer emergency power to the antimatter
containment system! 
LAFORGE: I'm trying, but there's a lot of interference. 
DATA: The warp shell is definitely having an effect, sir. The anomaly
is collapsing. 
LAFORGE: I can't hold it. The containment system is going. 
PICARD: Maintain position! Mister La 
(KaBOOM!)

[Future - Bridge]

DATA: Both of the other ships have been destroyed. 
Q: Two down, one to go. 
PICARD: Data, report! 
DATA: The anomaly is nearly collapsed. 
LAFORGE: We're losing containment. 
Q: Goodbye, Jean-Luc. I'm going to miss you. You had such potential.
But then again, all good things must come to an end. 
LAFORGE: Containment field is at critical. I'm losing it! 
(the anomaly sucks into the Enterprise and KaBOOM!) 
[Courtroom]

(Picard is sitting with his head in his hands) 
Q: The Continuum didn't think you had it in you, Jean-Luc, but I knew
you did. 
PICARD: Are you saying that it worked? We collapsed the anomaly? 
Q: Is that all this meant to you? Just another spatial anomaly? Just
another day at the office? 
PICARD: Did it work? 
Q: Well, you're here, aren't you? You're talking to me, aren't you? 
PICARD: What about my crew? 
Q: The anomaly. My crew. My ship. I suppose you're worried about your
fish, too. Well, if it puts your mind at ease, you've saved humanity
once again. 
PICARD: Thank you. 
Q: For what? 
PICARD: You had a hand in helping me get out of this. 
Q: I was the one that got you into it. A directive from the Continuum.
The part about the helping hand, thought, was my idea. 
PICARD: I sincerely hope that this is the last time that I find myself
here. 
Q: You just don't get it, do you, Jean-Luc? The trial never ends. We
wanted to see if you had the ability to expand your mind and your
horizons. And for one brief moment, you did. 
PICARD: When I realised the paradox. 
Q: Exactly. For that one fraction of a second, you were open to options
you had never considered. That is the exploration that awaits you. Not
mapping stars and studying nebulae, but charting the unknowable
possibilities of existence. 
PICARD: Q, what is it that you're trying to tell me? 
(Q nearly whispers in Picard's ear) 
Q: You'll find out. In any case, I'll be watching. And if you're very
lucky, I'll drop by to say hello from time to time. See you out there.

