Q PICARD CRUSHER DATA LAFORGE

[Future - USS Pasteur Ready room]

PICARD: Beverly, I cannot believe that you are not
willing to stay here until we 
CRUSHER: Don't you ever question my orders on the Bridge of my ship
again! 
PICARD: Damn it, I was just trying to. Look, there are larger concerns
here. What you don't understand is that 
CRUSHER: I understand that you would never have tolerated that kind of
behaviour back on the Enterprise and I won't here. I don't care if
you're my ex-Captain or my ex-husband. 
PICARD: You're right. I was out of line. It won't happen again. But
what you have to understand is what is at stake here. Q has said that
all of humanity will be destroyed. 
CRUSHER: I know. That's why I've allowed us to stay here longer and
keep looking. But I also want you to allow for the possibility that
none of what you're saying is real. 
PICARD: What? 
CRUSHER: Jean-Luc, I care for you too much not to tell you the truth.
You have advanced Irumodic Syndrome. It's
possible that all of this is in your mind. I'll stay here six hours
longer and then we're heading home. I want you to remember, if it were
anyone but you, we wouldn't even be here. 
(Crusher leaves, Q appears as a ancient man with an ear trumpet) 
Q: Eh? What was that she said, sonny? I couldn't quite hear her. 
PICARD: Q? What is going on here? Where is the anomaly? 
Q: Where's your mommy? Well, I don't know. 
PICARD: Answer me. 
Q: There is an answer, Jean-Luc, but I can't hand it to you. Although
you do have help. 
PICARD: What help? 
Q: You're not alone, you know. What you were and what you are to become
will always with you. 
PICARD: My time shifting. The answer does lie there, doesn't it. Now,
tell me one thing. This anomaly we're looking for, will that destroy
humanity? 
Q: You're forgetting, Jean-Luc. You destroy humanity. 
PICARD: By doing what? When? How can 
[Bridge]

PICARD: Report, Mister Data. 
DATA: The anomaly is two hundred million kilometres in diameter. It is
a highly focused temporal energy source which is emitting approximately
the same energy output as ten G type stars. 
PICARD: What is the source of this energy? 
DATA: I am uncertain, sir. Sensors are unable to penetrate the anomaly.

PICARD: What if we modified the main deflector to emit an inverse
tachyon pulse. That might be able to scan beyond the subspace barrier.
That might give us some idea of what the interior of this thing looks
like. 
DATA: That is a most intriguing idea, sir. I do not believe a tachyon
beam was ever used in such a way. I had no idea you were so versed in
the intricacies of temporal theory, sir. 
PICARD: I have some friends who are quite well versed in it. Make it
so. 
DATA: I believe we can make the necessary modifications in main
Engineering, sir.

[Engineering]

LAFORGE: We can get more power if we reroute the
primary EPS taps to the deflector array. 
DATA: Agreed. Initiating tachyon pulse. 
LAFORGE: Okay. the pulse is holding steady. We're starting to receive
data from the scan. 
DATA: It will take the computer some time to give us a complete picture
of the anomaly's interior. I suggest we 
(La Forge holds his head in pain) 
DATA: Geordi? What is wrong? 
LAFORGE: I don't know. It's like somebody's sticking an ice pick in my
temples. My visor's picking up all kinds of electromagnetic
fluctuations. 
DATA: Data to Sickbay. Medical emergency in main Engineering.

