TROI LAFORGE WORF PICARD RIKER CRUSHER DATA

[Doctor's office]

PICARD: It happened again. 
CRUSHER: A time shift? 
PICARD: Yes. 
RIKER: What happened? 
PICARD: It's still a little vague, but I can remember more this time.
It seems that every time I shift periods, I can retain more memory. At
first, it appeared that I was in the future, years from now, and then I
was in the past just before our first mission. 
RIKER: What is it? 
CRUSHER: I just scanned his temporal lobe and compared it to the scan I
performed just a few minutes before. There's a thirteen percent
increase in the acetylcholine of the hippocampus. Within a matter of
minutes, you have accumulated over two days worth of memories.

[Observation lounge]

PICARD: Counsellor, do you remember when I first
came on board the Enterprise? 
TROI: Yes. 
PICARD: What happened after the welcoming ceremony? 
TROI: There was a reception in Ten Forward. I introduced you to Worf
and the other senior officers. 
PICARD: Do you have any memory of my calling Red Alert in Spacedock? Do
you remember Starfleet diverting us from Farpoint to the Neutral Zone
to investigate a spatial anomaly? 
TROI: No. 
DATA: It would appear there is a discontinuity between the time periods
you described. Events in one time period would seem to have no effect
on the other two. 
RIKER: And yet in both the past and the present there's a report of the
same anomaly in the Devron System. I find it hard to believe that
that's a coincidence. 
PICARD: For all I know, I may find the same thing in the future. 
LAFORGE: Perhaps the anomaly is a temporal disturbance of some kind. 
CRUSHER: How is all this related to your time shifting? 
PICARD: These are all very important questions, and perhaps I will find
answers to them in the past, but now we have a potentially dangerous
threat from the Romulans. I want all departments to present a battle
readiness report to me at oh eight hundred hours tomorrow morning.
Dismissed. 
RIKER: Deanna, it's going to be a late night. Would you like to have
some dinner first? 
TROI: Actually I, we have plans. 
RIKER: Oh. I see. I'm sorry. I'll see you in the morning. 
WORF: Goodnight, sir. 
RIKER: Worf. 
[Bridge]

PICARD: I want continuous subspace sweeps. We may
be able to detect a temporal disturbance. 
DATA: Aye, sir. 
PICARD: Will, this time shifting. When it happens I experience a
momentary disorientation. If that should happen during a crisis, I want
you to take command immediately. Number One? 
RIKER: I'm sorry. Be prepared to take command. Aye, sir. 
PICARD: Speaking of disorientation, are you all right? 
RIKER: I'm just a little distracted. I'm fine. 
PICARD: You have the Bridge, Number One. I'll be in my Ready room.

