RIKER LAFORGE WORF TASHA PICARD TROI O'BRIEN CRUSHER DATA
shut trust doing collapsing maximum far laid pulses crusher

[Past - Bridge]

DATA: No, sir. 
PICARD: Disengage the tachyon pulse. 
O'BRIEN: but e haven't finished the scan, sir. 
PICARD: I know that. But it is imperative that you disengage the
tachyon pulse immediately. 
DATA: Aye, sir. Disengaging. 
PICARD: Why isn't the anomaly being affected? 
O'BRIEN: Why would it be, sir?

[Future - Bridge]

PICARD: I've shut off the tachyon pulses in the
other time periods but it hasn't changed the
anomaly. 
DATA: It remains unaffected here as well, sir. 
CRUSHER: What do we do? 
LAFORGE: The only way to stop this thing's to repair the rupture at the
focal point where time and anti-time are converging. 
RIKER: How do we do that? 
DATA: It would require taking the ship into the anomaly itself. Once
inside, we may be able to use the engines to create a static warp
shell. 
LAFORGE: Yeah, Data, that's right. And the shell would act as an
artificial subspace barrier separating time and anti-time. 
DATA: Collapsing the anomaly and restoring the normal flow of time. But
this would have to be done in the other two time periods as well. 
PICARD: That could be a problem. The anomaly's so much larger in the
other two time periods 
[Past - Bridge]

PICARD: It may be dangerous to take the ship in. 
O'BRIEN: Take the ship in where, sir? 
PICARD: Into the anomaly, Chief. Lay in a course for the exact centre
and transfer all available power to the shields. 
TASHA: Sir? Can you give us some explanation? 
PICARD: No, Lieutenant, I cannot. 
TASHA: Captain, so far we've obeyed every order, no matter how far
fetched it might have seemed. But if we're to risk the safety of the
ship and crew I think we have to ask you for an explanation. 
PICARD: I understand your concerns, Lieutenant, and I know if I were in
your position I would be doing the same thing. Looking for answers. But
you're not going to find any because I don't have any to give you. I
know it is difficult for you to understand, but we have to take the
ship into the very centre of the phenomenon and create a static warp
shell. Now, this will put the ship at risk. Quite frankly, we may not
survive. But I want you to believe that I am doing this for a greater
purpose, and that what is at stake here is more than any of you can
possibly imagine. I know you have your doubts about me, about each
other, about the ship. All I can say is that although we have only been
together for a short time, I know that you are the finest crew in the
fleet and I would trust each of you with my life. So, I am asking you
for a leap of faith, and to trust me. 
TASHA: Shields up, maximum strength. 
WORF: Boosting field integrity to the warp nacelles. We may encounter
shearing forces once we enter the anomaly. 
DATA: I am preparing to initiate a static warp shell. 
O'BRIEN: Course laid in, sir. 
TROI: All decks report ready, sir. 
PICARD: Take us in, Chief.

