TROI LAFORGE PICARD RIKER Q CREWMAN [OC] CRUSHER DATA
capable appeared didn far courtroom stars new change representative

[Courtroom]

(but instead of the Ready room he walks into the
courtroom from Encounter at Farpoint wearing his season 7 uniform) 
Q: Mon capitane. I thought you'd never get here. 
PICARD: Q. I knew it. What's going on? 
Q: It's Judge Q to you. And isn't it obvious what's going on? 
PICARD: The last time that I stood here was seven years ago. 
Q: Seven years ago. How little do you mortals understand time. Must you
be so linear, Jean-Luc? 
PICARD: You accused me of being the representative of a barbarous
species. 
Q: I believe my exact words were a dangerous, savage, child race. 
PICARD: We demonstrated to you that mankind had become peaceful and
benevolent. You agreed and you let us go on our way.
Now why am I standing here again? 
Q: Oh, you'd like me to connect the dots for you, lead you from A to B
to C so your puny mind can comprehend.
How boring. They'd be so much more entertained if you tried to figure
it out. I'll answer any ten questions that call for a yes or a no.
Well? 
PICARD: Are you putting mankind on trial again? 
Q: No. 
PICARD: Is there any connection between the trial seven years ago and
whatever's going on now? 
Q: I'd have to say yes. 
PICARD: The spatial anomaly in the Neutral Zone, is it related to
what's happening? 
Q: Most definitely yes. 
PICARD: Is it part of a Romulan plot, a ploy to start a war? 
Q: No and no. Five down. 
PICARD: That's only four. 
Q: Is it a Romulan plot? Is it a ploy to start a war? Those are
separate questions. 
PICARD: Did you create the anomaly? 
Q: No, no, no. You're going to be so surprised when you realise where
it came from, if you ever figure it out. 
PICARD: Are you responsible for my shifting through time? 
Q: I'll answer that question if you promise you won't tell anyone. (in
Picard's ear) Yes. 
PICARD: Why? 
Q: Sorry. That's not a yes or no question. You forfeit the rest of your
questions. I expected as much. You're such a limited creature. A
perfect example of why we made our decision. The trial never ended,
Captain. We never reached a verdict. But now we have. You're guilty. 
PICARD: Guilty of what? 
Q: Of being inferior. Seven years ago I said we'd be watching you, and
we have been, hoping that your ape-like race would demonstrate some
growth, give some indication that your minds have room for expansion.
But what have we seen instead? You worrying about Commander Riker's
career, listening to Counsellor Troi's pedantic psychobabble, indulging
Data in his witless exploration of humanity. 
PICARD: We've journeyed to countless new worlds, we've contacted new
species, we have expanded our understanding of the universe. 
Q: In your own paltry, limited way. You have no idea how far you still
have to go. But instead of using the last seven years to change and to
grow, you have squandered them. 
PICARD: We are what we are, and we're doing the best we can. It is not
for you to set the standards by which we should be judged. 
Q: Oh, but it is, and we have. Time may be eternal, Captain, but our
patience is not. It's time to put an end to your trek through the
stars, make room for other more worthy species. 
PICARD: You're going to deny us travel through space? 
Q: You obtuse piece of flotsam. You are to be denied existence.
Humanity's fate has been sealed. You will be destroyed. 
PICARD: Q, I do not believe that even you are capable of such an act. 
Q: I? There you go again, always blaming me for everything. Well this
time I'm not your enemy. I'm not the one that causes the annihilation
of mankind. You are. 
PICARD: Me? 
Q: That's right. You're doing it right now. You did it before and
you'll do it again. 
PICARD: What sort of meaningless doubletalk is this? 
Q: He doesn't understand. I have only myself to blame, I suppose. I
believed in you. I thought you had potential. But apparently I was
wrong. May whatever god you believe in have mercy on your soul. This
court stands adjourned.

[Bridge]

PICARD: Commander, assemble the senior staff and go
to Red alert. We have a bigger problem than I thought. 
RIKER: Red alert!

[Observation lounge]

LAFORGE: I don't believe him. This has to be
another one of Q's games. He's probably listening to us right now,
getting a big laugh out of watching us jump through his hoops. 
PICARD: Normally I would agree with you, but this time I feel that
somehow it is different. There was a deadly earnestness about him. I
think he's serious. Which means that in some fashion, I am going to be
the cause of the destruction of humanity. 
CRUSHER: But didn't Q say you already had caused it? 
TROI: And that you were causing it now? 
DATA: Given the fact that there is an apparent discontinuity between
the three time periods the Captain has
visited, Q's statement may be accurate, if confusing. 
PICARD: So what am I going to do? Lock myself in a room in all three
different time periods? 
RIKER: Captain, maybe not acting is what causes the destruction of
mankind. What if you were needed on the Bridge at a key moment, and you
weren't there? 
TROI: I don't think we can start second guessing ourselves. I think we
have to proceed normally and deal with each situation as it occurs. 
PICARD: Agreed. I've been thinking about my conversation with Q. He
admitted that he was responsible for my shifting through time. Now it
occurred to me that he might be giving me a chance somehow to save
humanity. 
RIKER: What makes you say that? 
PICARD: Well, he's always had a certain fascination with humanity, with
myself in particular. I think he has more than a passing interest in
what happens to me. 
DATA: That is true. Q's interest in you has always been very similar to
that of a master and his beloved pet. That was only an analogy,
Captain. 
PICARD: If I weren't travelling through time I would never have
realized that the anomaly in the Neutral Zone appeared there in the
past as well. Assuming that's an important piece of a larger puzzle, my
ability to shift through time may be the key to understanding what's
going on. 
CREWMAN [OC]: Captain Picard. 
PICARD: Go ahead. 
CREWMAN [OC]: We're approaching the Neutral Zone, Captain. 
PICARD: We're on our way.

