TROI OBRIEN WORF TASHA PICARD FLETCHER CRUSHER DATA

[Past - Observation lounge]

PICARD: Report. 
TASHA: We've completed a full subspace scan of the ship and surrounding
space. We've detected no unusual readings or anomalies. 
WORF: With all due respect, sir, it would be helpful if we knew exactly
what we were looking for. 
PICARD: Noted. Counsellor, do you sense anything unusual on board the
Enterprise? Perhaps an alien presence that doesn't
belong here, maybe one operating on a level of intelligence far
superior to our own? 
TROI: No, sir. I'm only aware of the crew and the families on board the
ship. 
PICARD: Mister Worf, initiate a level two security alert on all decks
until further notice. 
TASHA: With all due respect, sir, I'm the Security Chief on this ship.
Unless you're planning to make a change. 
PICARD: No, of course not. Lieutenant, security alert two. 
TASHA: Aye, sir. 
O'BRIEN [OC]: Captain Picard to the Bridge, please. 
PICARD: We're on our way, Chief.

[Past - Bridge]

O'BRIEN: Sir, Starfleet has just issued an alert.
It appears a number of vessels are moving toward the Neutral Zone
between Romulan and Federation space. 
TASHA: What kind of vessels? 
O'BRIEN: Freighters, transports, all civilians. None of them Starfleet
ships. 
PICARD: This tells me that a large spatial anomaly has appeared in the
Neutral Zone, in the Devron System. 
WORF: Captain, it could be a Romulan trick to lure our ships into the
Neutral Zone as an excuse for a military strike. 
O'BRIEN: Starfleet's cancelling our mission to Farpoint Station and
ordering us to the Neutral Zone as soon as we leave the Spacedock. 
PICARD: No, we'll proceed to Farpoint. 
TASHA: Sir? 
PICARD: You heard me. 
WORF: Captain, the security of the Federation could be at stake. 
PICARD: Mister Worf, will you man your station. 
WORF: Aye, sir. 
TROI: Captain, perhaps if we understood your thinking, if you could
explain 
PICARD: I've no intention of explaining to anyone. We will proceed with
our mission to Farpoint as planned. Chief O'Brien, am I right in
thinking that you're having a problem with the warp plasma inducers. 
O'BRIEN: That's right, sir. 
PICARD: Well I know how to get them back online. You're with me. We'll
be in main Engineering. 
[Past - Engineering]

PICARD: Mister O'Brien, will you use these
specifications to bypass the secondary plasma inducer. 
O'BRIEN: You have to realise sir, this isn't exactly my area of
expertise. The Chief Engineer should be making these modifications. 
PICARD: But the Chief Engineer isn't on board. Mister O'Brien, trust
me. I know you can do it. All those years you spent as a child building
those model starship engines. They were well worth it. 
O'BRIEN: How did you know that, sir? 
PICARD: From your Starfleet records. 
O'BRIEN: Yes, sir. I'll get right to these modifications. Fletcher,
tell Munoz and Lee to get up here right away. 
FLETCHER: Aye, sir. 
(Picard goes to a wall console and Data enters) 
O'BRIEN: We have to realign the entire power grid. We'll all be burning
the midnight oil on this one. 
DATA: That would be inadvisable. 
O'BRIEN: Excuse me? 
DATA: If you attempt to ignite a petroleum product on this ship at zero
hundred hours, it will activate the fire suppression system, which
would seal off this entire compartment. 
O'BRIEN: That was just an expression. 
DATA: Expression of what? 
O'BRIEN: A figure of speech. I was trying to tell him that we'd be
working late. 
DATA: Ah. Then to burn the midnight oil implies late work? 
O'BRIEN: That's right. 
DATA: I am curious. What is the etymology of that idiom? How did it
come to be used in contemporary language? 
O'BRIEN: I don't know, sir. 
PICARD: Commander Data, welcome on board. It's so very good to see you.

DATA: It is good to see you, too, sir. 
PICARD: I could use your help with the infuser array. 
DATA: Certainly. 
PICARD: As you can see, we're having difficulty with the plasma
conduits. 
DATA: This will need a completely new field induction subprocessor. It
appears that we will be required to ignite the midnight petroleum, sir.

CRUSHER [OC]: Jean-Luc, what's going on?

