RIKER LAFORGE PICARD COMPUTER CRUSHER DATA

[Bridge]

(at the science station) 
PICARD: Data do we have a tomographic imaging scanner on board? 
DATA: Yes, sir. 
PICARD: Can you use it to scan the interior of the anomaly? 
DATA: Possibly. (taps the console) There is a great deal of
interference, but I am getting some readings. This is very unusual. 
PICARD: What is it? 
DATA: It appears that our tachyon pulse is converging with two other
tachyon pulses at the centre of the anomaly. The other two pulses have
the exact same amplitude modulation as our own pulse. It is as if all
three originated from the Enterprise. 
PICARD: Three pulses, from three time periods, converging at one point
in space. 
DATA: Captain, what are you suggesting?

[Future - Enterprise guest quarters]

(Picard wakes up) 
PICARD: Computer, where is Admiral Riker? 
COMPUTER: Admiral Riker is in Ten Forward.

[Future - Ten Forward]

LAFORGE: The ship has held up pretty well over the
years. 
RIKER: They tried to decommission her about five years ago. One of the
advantages of being an Admiral is you get to choose your own ship. 
CRUSHER: Will, how long is this thing between you and Worf going to go
on? 
RIKER: It's been going on for over twenty years. Doesn't look like it's
going to end any time soon. 
DATA: I suspect the last thing Counsellor Troi would have wanted is for
the two of you to be alienated. 
CRUSHER: I agree. I think it's time to put it behind you. 
RIKER: I tried at Deanna's funeral. He wouldn't even talk to me. 
LAFORGE: Might have been tough for him then. He took her death pretty
hard. 
RIKER: Oh, yeah? Well he wasn't the only one. 
CRUSHER: I know, but I think in his mind you were the reason that he
and Deanna never got together. 
RIKER: I never did anything to stand in his way. 
CRUSHER: Didn't you, Will? 
RIKER: Did I? I didn't want to admit that it was over. I always thought
that we'd get together again. And then she was gone. You think you have
all the time in the world, until. Yeah.

