Q PICARD OBRIEN DATA

[Primordial Earth]

Q: Welcome home. 
PICARD: Home? 
Q: Don't you recognise your old stomping grounds? This is Earth,
France, about, oh, three and a half billion years ago, give or take an
eon or two. Smells awful, doesn't it? All that sulphur and volcanic
ash. I really must speak to the maid. 
PICARD: Q, is there any point to all this? 
Q: Look. 
(a purple sky is dominated by a swirling white) 
PICARD: So the anomaly is here too, at Earth. 
Q: At this point in history the anomaly fills your entire quadrant of
the galaxy. 
PICARD: The further back in time, the larger the anomaly. 
Q: Come here. There's something I want to show you. You see this?
(a sludge filled pond) 
Q: This is you. I'm serious. Right here, life is about to form on this
planet for the very first time. A group of amino acids are about to
combine and form the first protein, the building blocks of what you
call life. Strange, isn't it?
Everything you know, your entire civilisation, it all begins right here
in this little pond of goo. Appropriate, somehow, isn't it? Too bad you
didn't bring your microscope. It's really quite fascinating. Oh, look,
there they go. The amino acids are moving closer and closer, and
closer. Oh! Nothing happened. See what you've done? 
PICARD: Are you saying that I caused the anomaly, and that the anomaly
somehow disrupted the beginnings of life on Earth? 
Q: Congratulations.

[Past - Engineering]

PICARD: Let's concentrate on how this anomaly was
initially formed. Speculation? 
DATA: Our tachyon pulse has been unable to completely penetrate the
anomaly. If we had information on the centre of the phenomenon, we
might have a basis for speculation. 
PICARD: Is there any way that we can scan the interior? 
O'BRIEN: I've tried everything I know. There's just too much
interference. There's nothing on board that'll do the job. 
PICARD: Do you know what could? 
DATA: In theory, a tomographic imaging scanner capable of multiphasic
resolution would be able to penetrate this much interference. The
Daystrom Institute has been working on such a device, but it is still
only theoretical.

[Bridge]

(at the science station) 
PICARD: Data do we have a tomographic imaging scanner on board? 
DATA: Yes, sir. 
PICARD: Can you use it to scan the interior of the anomaly? 
DATA: Possibly. (taps the console) There is a great deal of
interference, but I am getting some readings. This is very unusual. 
PICARD: What is it? 
DATA: It appears that our tachyon pulse is converging with two other
tachyon pulses at the centre of the anomaly. The other two pulses have
the exact same amplitude modulation as our own pulse. It is as if all
three originated from the Enterprise. 
PICARD: Three pulses, from three time periods, converging at one point
in space. 
DATA: Captain, what are you suggesting?

